<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Call SEP-23-2020 &ndash; 23 September 2020</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Call SEP-23-2020</h1>
<h2>23 September 2020</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Sep/0007.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2020/09/23-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, Georgios, Georgios V. Lioudakis, harsh, Lioudakis, PaulRyan, V.</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Discussion on future deliverables and timeline</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Organisation for a virtual workshop/hands-on session</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Discussion on future deliverables and timeline</h3>
<p id=x015 class=summary>We are moving to two concrete objectives for the future: update DPV, and collect use-cases/requirements. These have been added to the wiki as: <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Objectives_and_deliverables">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Objectives_and_deliverables</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>A request has been sent to Bert regarding updating the group's main page.</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Regarding updating dpv - we will continue to use the GitHub repo, with harsh to have clarification on process regarding updates to w3 namespace.</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>We need to streamline the process of updating the vocabulary, along with documentation and revision tracking. We need volunteers for these tasks.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Organisation for a virtual workshop/hands-on session</h3>
<p id=x021 class=summary>We have agreed to try and organise a longer session for vocabulary update and documentation review in October or November.</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary>Poll created for this: <a href="https://framadate.org/dpvcg-workshop-2020">https://<wbr>framadate.org/<wbr>dpvcg-workshop-2020</a></p>
<p id=x031 class=summary>In the next session on 7 OCT 2020, we will have George present the BPR4GDPR project.</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary>Questions, enquiries, and requests can be mailed to the thread on mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Sep/0004.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2020Sep/<wbr>0004.html</a></p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>The presentation and Q&amp;A session is planned to be ~30mins</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
