<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 20 JUL 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>20 JUL 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0/20230720T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/07/20-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, harsh, iainHenderson, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>delaram, georg</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">data breach / incident concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Proposed change to include Non-Personal Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Risk Management concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DGA Extension</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>Meeting notes are available at - <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-07-20">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-07-20</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>iainHenderson - working at JLINC on creating user-side agreements that can be used to provide or permit use of data by the individual rather than having unilateral terms offered by organisations. DPV concepts would be useful to represent the information in these, and for the creation of common patterns similar to how CC by works for licenses in terms of being well known and easy to understand effects (paraphrased)</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>IEEE P7012 Standard for Machine Readable Personal Privacy Terms <a href="https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/7012/7192/">https://<wbr>standards.ieee.org/<wbr>ieee/<wbr>7012/<wbr>7192/</a> is working on this</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>data breach / incident concepts</h3>
<p id=x016 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">#100</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">Issue 100</a></strong> Proposal to add (security) Incident Reporting concepts (coolharsh55) scope, concepts</p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong> Provide concepts for Data Breach (coolharsh55) concepts, todo, help-wanted</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0006.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0006.html</a> for incident response concept proposal</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> reviewing the concepts in the spreadsheet - okay for data breach</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> have added the incident response concepts from the email to the spreadsheet below the data breach concepts</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> they are a generalisation of the breach concepts to (general) incidents, with some specific data breach concepts to be continued</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> the proposal is to have the incident and breach concepts within the risk extension to reflect its context (as they are often accompanied with risk assessments)</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> the GDPR specific concepts such as notification requirements would go in the GDPR extension</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> seems okay</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> will update the data breach guidance document to reflect these concepts, and share with the group for reviewing next week</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add Incident concepts and update Data Breach concepts</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Update Data Breach guide with Incident concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Proposed change to include Non-Personal Data</h3>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> gb, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">#99</a></p>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> One additional response received on mailing list from Pat McBennett - see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0009.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0009.html</a><br>
<span id=x034>… Response is in favour of the change, and prefers option 1 - continuation of namespace IRI with change in concept definitions.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Risk Management concepts</h3>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a></p>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong> Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0008.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0008.html</a> for risk concepts proposed</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> the concepts at the end are also included in the proposal?</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> those are the additional concepts from ISO risk vocabulary that do not fit within our simplified 'risk assessment framework', but they are provided in case someone else needs to use them</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> With delaram not present today, we defer this topic to next week.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> delaram, harsh to review risk management concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DGA Extension</h3>
<p id=x044 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> gb, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 62</a></strong> Add DGA/eIDAas entities (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> beatriz shared the email with questions on mailing list, see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0012.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0012.html</a><br>
<span id=x048>… harsh replied with suggestions, see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0013.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0013.html</a></span></p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> georg mentioned for Data Intermediary to have separate concepts for Holders and Subjects. To clarify the interpretation of &quot;for&quot; vs &quot;on behalf of&quot; and how the entity should be named. To be taken up when georg is present.</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Any interest in the group to align concepts between GDPR and DGA? For example, the Intermediary as a Controller or a Processor?</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> I think this is possible, since both are separate roles, e.g. the Intermediary can be delcared as a Controller using <code>hasDataController</code></p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Modeling SME - should we also model 'Micro Enterprises'?<br>
<span id=x054>… we would need a legal definition (or use of the term) - which the EU 2003 regulation has <a href="http://data.europa.eu/eli/reco/2003/361/oj">http://<wbr>data.europa.eu/<wbr>eli/<wbr>reco/<wbr>2003/<wbr>361/<wbr>oj</a> - so it is okay to add the concept</span></p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> <code>MicroEnterprise</code> has been proposed and accepted as a type of organisation</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> in DGA, the public sector bodies are mentioned which we have in DPV, so we need a definition for private sector. Georg has also asked about modeling public/private sector in DPV. We already have a <code>Sector</code> concept.</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> The <code>Sector</code> concept is best left for the area or domain, as used by the controlled vocabularies such as NACE. For these, we have three types of bodies - public, private, and third (voluntary, charity, other). We model these as types of organisation. The existing concepts will get restructured under these.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Reorganise the Organisation types to include Public and Private Sector types. For the third type, we can use NonProfit sector.</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> For the purposes of 'Support Informed Consent Choices' - how to model these?</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> as discussed in the email, this is not supoprt as an ongoing activity, but rather as a measure taken alongside other existing interactions - such as the providing of advice within a notice. So we can have these as specific purposes (see email).</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> will discuss with georg for the rest of the concepts.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> beatriz and georg to review DGA concepts</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Add Incident concepts and update Data Breach concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Update Data Breach guide with Incident concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">delaram, harsh to review risk management concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Reorganise the Organisation types to include Public and Private Sector types. For the third type, we can use NonProfit sector.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">beatriz and georg to review DGA concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01"><code>MicroEnterprise</code> has been proposed and accepted as a type of organisation</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
