<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>dpvcg &ndash; 06 November 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>dpvcg</h1>
<h2>06 November 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/11/06-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AxelPollleres, Bert, elmar, Eva, harsh, Javier, jonathan, MarkLizar, Niklas, Ramisa, Sabrina, simonstey, stefano, Urosh</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Axel</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>bert, harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">action items</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">lawfulness of processing https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0027.html<br>
… rigo's image: https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>att-0002/<wbr>GDPR-taxonomy.pdf</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Consent and competency consent</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Harsh's mail on collecting terms from vocabularies: https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0041.html, https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Hello everybody!</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Attendees: elmar, bert, stefano, harsh, eva, niklas, javier, axel</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Attendees: elmar, bert, stefano, harsh, eva, niklas, javier, axel, martin, ramisa</p>
<p id=x018 class=irc><cite>&lt;Urosh&gt;</cite> Hi all</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;Urosh&gt;</cite> Where can we find the link for the call?</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> <a href="https://mit.webex.com/mit/j.php?MTID=m58820d34eca4f9e04cd99547751d1c12">https://<wbr>mit.webex.com/<wbr>mit/<wbr>j.php?MTID=m58820d34eca4f9e04cd99547751d1c12</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;Urosh&gt;</cite> the one provided in the email asks for login credentials</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;Urosh&gt;</cite> thanks!</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Meeting numbe ris 317 247 878</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve last call's minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/10/16-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>10/<wbr>16-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve last call's minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/10/16-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>10/<wbr>16-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>action items</h3>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> axel to contact michael markevich on ACTION-6</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-31 - Contact michael markevich on action-6 [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> who is the scribe?</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-7</p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-7.</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkLizar&gt;</cite> Hello</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-11 continued</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-14 continued</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-17 with the conclusion that we do at the moment not focus on rediscussing requirements</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-17</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-17.</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-19 continued</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-23</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-23.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-24</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-24.</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-26</p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-26.</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-27 continued</p>
<p id=x055 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-28</p>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-28.</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-30</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-30.</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-29 continued</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Next points on the agenda, to discuss progress since last time. There has been some discussion on lawfulness for processing.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>lawfulness of processing <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0027.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0027.html</a><br>
<span id=x067>… rigo's image: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/att-0002/GDPR-taxonomy.pdf">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>att-0002/<wbr>GDPR-taxonomy.pdf</a></h3>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Started in the mail thread (link shared</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> It would be good to inform the community about Rigo's email.<br>
<span id=x071>… link to Rigo's email <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0002.html</a></span></p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/2273843.xauRQj15pD@hegel">Rigo's mail on GDPR taxonomy</a></p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> The meeting / discussion happened at the SPECIAL consortium meeting in London</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> The email (has an attachment). Axel, Rigo and I met last week, and we were discussing lawfulness of processing, and Rigo said we should try to convey what a lawyer would look at first when auditing the legality of processing. Perhaps we can display the steps of what the auditor would map/show (?). That was Rigo's first attempt, but I will probably do one as well.</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> To see which kind of elements a lawyer would look at in the context of the GDPR</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> clarification: The whole consortium were involved in the discussion not just Eva, Rigo and Axel</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> The discussion was around the second layer of the tree (see attachment in Rigo's email). On the other hand, there was discussion where several people have replied via email. Can Eva and Rigo summarise these discussions?</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> We can do that. However, I can get around to it only in the next week.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Eva (and Rigo) to summarize the discussion for legitmation of data processing and come up with a first proposal of categories</p>
<p id=x083 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-32 - (and rigo) to summarize the discussion for legitmation of data processing and come up with a first proposal of categories [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2018-11-13].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Consent and competency consent</h3>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Next on the agenda, consent and competency consent</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Elements of consent/competency questions for consent <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0025.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0025.html</a> &lt;<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0025.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0025.html</a>&gt;, <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0038.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0038.html</a> &lt;<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0038.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0038.html</a>&gt; → I would like to task someone to summarize these and make a proposal to the group we can discuss, e.g. based on what [CUT]</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> in the minutes last time:</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> consent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> which of these aspects are similarly relevant for other forms of legitmation than consent?</p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> There was discussion on elements on consent, there were some mails. In our last call, we got some attributes for what consent, which is an affirmative action (...) from email. The things in the square attributes would be the attributes, are we missing some attributes? There was some discussion on the mailing list. Someone needs to summarise these to see if we need more refined definitions.</p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> As someone said, storage is also a kind of processing, but has advantages in having a special status.</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s03"><cite>Javier:</cite> It is missing the Data Subject</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Niklas: [data subject] is missing</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> This is related to the action to Eva and Rigo. These attributes would hold for other forms of legal basis / lawfulness?</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> harsh: Time and duration might be relevant</p>
<p id=x098 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: had a go on attributes relevant for attributes on other legitimation</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> I've been working on parameters of consent, I can provide some input regarding that</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Harsh and Mark, can you summarise this? To give us a summary of the discussion? To review these by the group. The current definition could be &quot;agreement by .. a data subject&quot;.</p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark: can provide input on that.</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> consent = agreement by a [data subject[ through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> I can add these to the wiki</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> We have just written the GDPR version and added the elements, what is not clear, is regarding delegation of consent, sub-processing, the scope of consent. These things are missing in the definitions.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with Mark Lizar on &quot;concent receipt&quot; definition (e.g. on delegation)</p>
<p id=x107 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-33 - Summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with mark lizar on &quot;concent receipt&quot; definition (e.g. on delegation) [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> In a consent transaction, there is someone acting on the behalf of the consent, controller, etc. which is a delegation which is important to catch.</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> For e.g. consent for minors</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> yes, consent for minor. A processor acting on the behalf of the controllor, or a trust provider acting on behalf of the regulator.</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> MarkLizar: often third party involved, also on behalf of Data Controller.</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Axel: Please keep the discussion in the mailing list</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: please keep the discussion on the mailinglist.</p>
<p id=x114 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> I support this request, these are very important aspects Mark raised</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Harsh's mail on collecting terms from vocabularies: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0041.html,">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Oct/<wbr>0041.html,</a> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Taxonomy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></h3>
<p id=x116 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> How do we structure or order these (collected) categories?</p>
<p id=x117 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: just lables there so far, definitions would be useful, anyway a great start.</p>
<p id=x118 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> having trouble with the network connection, I apologize</p>
<p id=x119 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> the terms listed in the taxonomy are structured along different dimensions (such as scientific data). So we should ask what are these categories (to identify)?</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> It has been difficult to find a consistent taxonomy or structure for categorisation (based on experience)</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Niklas to start structuring categories of personal data and involved dimensions together with Elmar and Harsh, Mark</p>
<p id=x122 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-34 - Start structuring categories of personal data and involved dimensions together with elmar and harsh, mark [on Niklas Kirchner - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=x123 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> I can share some previous attempts that did not work</p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> GDPR has categories of controller, which are referenced lightly. We called them GDPR purpose categories, but they are different lists.</p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> We are interested in different taxonomies for categories of data, processing, data subjects, etc. We have a starting point already. We should try to structure there, but we don't have these for the use-cases.</p>
<p id=x126 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> We should go through the use-cases, and task the owners (of use-case) to enter the applicable taxonomies (from email) to the use-case page.</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> This will allow us to cover the use-cases and to see if we are missing something. (suggested approach to go forward).<br>
<span id=x129>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Taxonomy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></span></p>
<p id=x130 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Taxonomy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> For the approved categories, we should start focusing on these.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Mark to add previous classifications to subpages of <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Taxonomy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></p>
<p id=x133 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-35 - Add previous classifications to subpages of <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/taxonomy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>taxonomy</a> [on Mark Lizar - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> I have a few reasons why these categories/lists don't work (to be adde to Taxnomy wiki)</p>
<p id=x135 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Next on the agenda, use-cases. Do we have some use-case owner's on call.</p>
<p id=x136 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html</a> points 1.-6. in the email</p>
<p id=x137 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Harald can try to do that proposed action on the public entities obligations use case he added to the wiki</p>
<p id=x138 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> current use cases:</p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies#Use-Cases">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies#Use-Cases</a></p>
<p id=x140 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> What we need (w.r.t use-cases) is more description based on the points in the email.</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Rudy to add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/SPECIAL/Proximus_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>SPECIAL/<wbr>Proximus_use_case</a></p>
<p id=x142 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkLizar&gt;</cite> Apologies - I have to drop - as I am at a security conference in Brussels and have to participate..   - very nice pace Axel !!</p>
<p id=x143 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-36 - Add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/special/proximus_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>special/<wbr>proximus_use_case</a> [on Rudy Jacob - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> MArtin to add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/SPECIAL/DT_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>SPECIAL/<wbr>DT_use_case</a></p>
<p id=x145 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'MArtin'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x146 class=irc><cite>&lt;Martin_K&gt;</cite> I'm here and will tak the actions</p>
<p id=x147 class=irc><cite>&lt;Martin_K&gt;</cite> for some reasins audio did not work:(</p>
<p id=x148 class=irc><cite>&lt;Martin_K&gt;</cite> sorry for spelling errors</p>
<p id=x149 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Yes I have sometimes trouble with the audio as well</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Ben to add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/SPECIAL/TR_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>SPECIAL/<wbr>TR_use_case</a></p>
<p id=x151 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-37 - Add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/special/tr_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>special/<wbr>tr_use_case</a> [on Benedict Whittam Smith - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=x152 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Axel, I think you've skipped the public entities use case - this would be an action point for Harald</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Stefano to Add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/DECODE/DEC01_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>DECODE/<wbr>DEC01_use_case</a> - <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/DECODE/DEC03_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>DECODE/<wbr>DEC03_use_case</a></p>
<p id=x154 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-38 - Add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/decode/dec01_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>decode/<wbr>dec01_use_case</a> - <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/decode/dec03_use_case">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>decode/<wbr>dec03_use_case</a> [on Stefano Bocconi - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Elmar to add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/OwnYourData/Data_Donation">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>OwnYourData/<wbr>Data_Donation</a></p>
<p id=x156 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-39 - Add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a>  to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/ownyourdata/data_donation">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>ownyourdata/<wbr>data_donation</a> [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2018-11-13].</p>
<p id=x157 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> About F2F in December. Two days in December (3 or 5)</p>
<p id=x158 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Would strongly prefer 3rd over 5th.</p>
<p id=x159 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Stefano, Ramisa would be able to dial in  on the 3rd.</p>
<p id=x160 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> At which time would we start on the 3rd?</p>
<p id=x162 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Goal would be to progress on the things discussed today for coming up with a basis for the vocabulary.<br>
<span id=x163>… Have to leave, apologies.</span></p>
<p id=x164 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> I have a lecture in the morning therefore I could not join until after lunch</p>
<p id=x165 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Someone else please take on the scribing duties.</p>
<p id=x166 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: F2F meeting at December third in Vienna at WU.</p>
<p id=x167 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x169 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x170 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> so it would be all day long meeting?</p>
<p id=x171 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> niklas: +1</p>
<p id=x172 class=irc><cite>&lt;Martin_K&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x173 class="phone s06"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> any objections to 3 dec?</p>
<p id=x174 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x175 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x176 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x177 class=irc><cite>&lt;Martin_K&gt;</cite> sorry, need to leave now. cu in Vienna dec 3rd</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> F2F meeting at December third in Vienna at WU.</p>
<p id=x180 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Starting time?</p>
<p id=x181 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> starting time 9am latest, I'd say.</p>
<p id=x182 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> let's discuss details next time.</p>
<p id=x183 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> bye</p>
<p id=x184 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> adjourned.</p>
<p id=x185 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> AOB please on mailinglist!</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">axel to contact michael markevich on ACTION-6</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Eva (and Rigo) to summarize the discussion for legitmation of data processing and come up with a first proposal of categories</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Harsh to summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with Mark Lizar on &quot;concent receipt&quot; definition (e.g. on delegation)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Niklas to start structuring categories of personal data and involved dimensions together with Elmar and Harsh, Mark</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Mark to add previous classifications to subpages of https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Rudy to add points 1.-6. from https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html  to https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>SPECIAL/<wbr>Proximus_use_case</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">MArtin to add points 1.-6. from https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html  to https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>SPECIAL/<wbr>DT_use_case</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Ben to add points 1.-6. from https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0000.html  to https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>SPECIAL/<wbr>TR_use_case</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Stefano to Add points 1.-6. from https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html  to https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>DECODE/<wbr>DEC01_use_case - https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>DECODE/<wbr>DEC03_use_case</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">Elmar to add points 1.-6. from https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html  to https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>OwnYourData/<wbr>Data_Donation</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve last call's minutes https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>10/<wbr>16-dpvcg-minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">F2F meeting at December third in Vienna at WU.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
