<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 13 OCT 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>13 OCT 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Oct/0007.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/10/13-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>:, beatriz, georg, harsh, julian, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPV Personal Data Category naming</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Should DPV provide Constraints/Permissions/Prohibitions?</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Personal data characteristics: collection method (direct, inferred), sensitivity, (pseudo-)anonymisation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Technology / Implementation details e.g. storage mechanism, use of cookies</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Privacy Policy and related concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPV Personal Data Category naming</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/27">w3c/<wbr>dpv#27</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>Changing PersonalDataCategory to PersonalData ⟶ big change, needs to be taken up with all on mailing list</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>for prefixing or suffixing concepts ; proposal is Historical ⟶ HistoricalData</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> related to issue regarding whether the naming should also reflect whether something is personal data, after anonymising, etc.</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>paul:</cite> what is the origin of these names?</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> EnterPrivacy taxonomy, and in SPECIAL there were separate vocabs for each concept e.g. personal data category</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> a better example is perhaps Location as personal data, but also relevant in recipient and data storage where it is a separate concept<br>
<span id=x019>… Two options we have: separate vocabularies - to minimise compatibility issues, we can move just the personal data categories; OR add prefix/suffix to data categories</span></p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s04"><cite>beatriz:</cite> both are fine</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>paul:</cite> one single vocab would be preferable</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> one single vocab is the selling point / attraction for DPV</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s05"><cite>julian:</cite> one view or vocab is preferable<br>
<span id=x025>… We have option to prefix PD as a suggestion</span></p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> Do we limit this to PD or also expand with other requests such as EyeColourDataSensitive?</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> only for PD, for sensitive we have subclass<br>
<span id=x029>… No objections to prefixing with PD</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Should DPV provide Constraints/Permissions/Prohibitions?</h3>
<p id=x032 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/18">w3c/<wbr>dpv#18</a><br>
<span id=x033>… See <a href="https://github.com/EBISPOT/DUO">EBISPOT/<wbr>DUO</a></span></p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>beatriz:</cite> would be better to use ODRL since it has rights and constraints handling by design and purpose</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> there is value in lightweight concepts, which can be further expressed using ODRL<br>
<span id=x037>… We consider this of interest, and needing further thought. Beatriz will be the technical evaluator to express critique.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Personal data characteristics: collection method (direct, inferred), sensitivity, (pseudo-)anonymisation</h3>
<p id=x040 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Collection method (direct, inferred) → is of interest; propose concepts for review<br>
<span id=x041>… Sensitivity - proposal to have this as subclass of PersonaDataCategory and parent class of SpecialCategories</span></p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> are they the same? see. Rec 10</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> they should be different, Sensitive is a larger set, e.g. EDPB considers Location as sensitive but it is not Special<br>
<span id=x046>… agreement that Sensitivity can be added to DPV</span><br>
<span id=x047>… Anonymisation and Pseudo-anonymisation (along with levels, methods) are in interest. As in anonymised and pseudo-anonymised data. To provide concepts for review.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Technology / Implementation details e.g. storage mechanism, use of cookies</h3>
<p id=x050 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Agreement that this is of interest, and should be added<br>
<span id=x051>… Proposal is to have a separate concept for technology (or technological implementation) for associating how something else in DPV is implemented e.g. data storage in cloud storage or database</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Privacy Policy and related concepts</h3>
<p id=x056 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Oct/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2021Oct/<wbr>0003.html</a> for sources and SotA<br>
<span id=x057>… see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Oct/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2021Oct/<wbr>0005.html</a> for spreadsheet with concept proposals by Georg</span><br>
<span id=x058>… (shared screen by Georg showing mind map of privacy policy concepts)</span><br>
<span id=x059>… concepts being discussed - publishing data, duration (start and end of effect) can be represented using DCT or DCAT as relevant</span></p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> how to number/identify specific personal data handling instances in a privacy policy<br>
<span id=x062>… We stop the discussion here due to time limits.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> We will meet again on WED OCT-27 13:00 WEST <em> 14:00 CEST<br>
<span id=x066>… Discussion will take place asynchronously on the mailing list </em> elsewhere meanwhile</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
