<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 28 FEB 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>28 FEB 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240228T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaram, harsh, paul, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georg</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">GDPR Rights Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV Resource Paper</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">W3id namespaces broken</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Misc</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t06">CFP Solid Symp.</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Agenda/Invite missing</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-02-28">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-02-28</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>GDPR Rights Justifications</h3>
<p id=x011 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> haven't reviewed it yet</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> since beatriz and georg are not here, we will discuss this next time</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV Resource Paper</h3>
<p id=x015 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> is there a draft yet?</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> no, we discussed basing it on the DCAT v2 paper <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08883">https://<wbr>arxiv.org/<wbr>abs/<wbr>2303.08883</a> </p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> we need to look at the methodology and implementation sections - we don't have information on that at the moment such as on the use-cases and requirements</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> we have people using DPV e.g. Signatu uses it internally, I use it for GDPR work</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> opportunity to do that now for the paper - why use the DCAT v2 as template?</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> seems relevant because DCAT v2 builds on v1 and in DPV we also want to show what we have done since v1</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> DQV paper from semantics can also be useful <a href="https://www.semantic-web-journal.net/system/files/swj2320.pdf">https://<wbr>www.semantic-web-journal.net/<wbr>system/<wbr>files/<wbr>swj2320.pdf</a> </p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, though that paper is doing introducing first but we can use the second half where it shows citation analysis of implementers </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>W3id namespaces broken</h3>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> the namespaces e.g. dpv-gdpr and dpv-owl are broken since we updated the layout and structure in the repo. Will fix them.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>AI Act</h3>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> working on concepts, segregating them based on the extension - AI Act, tech - and then working on the definitions</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> discussing concepts in tabs in spreadsheet. To add prefix to concepts and get them in the correct order/form so we can start generating the HTML documentation for them as we go along. For new concepts e.g. in AI Act referencing parent concept in Tech extension that doesn't exist - its okay to add concepts as parents assuming they are accepted and add a corresponding concept to the Tech tab</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> will move the concepts around for by next week</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> status for risk levels under the AI Act - do we define them as specific concepts e.g. high-risk and non-high-risk?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> does such assertions e.g. not high risk need to be documented i.e. is this part of the AI Act?</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, because it helps show you have done the assessment e.g. DPIA requried - Yes or Not - and then it helps evaluation by checking the assessment by referring to the documentation done on this</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> example of a data breach - the level of the breach has to be assessed and documented and then there may or may not be a notification</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> good example. For the risk level should we define custom levels for the AI act based on the prohibited uses, high-risk etc.?</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> seems so - it includes prohibited system. Further work required here.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Misc</h3>
<h4 id=t06>CFP Solid Symp.</h4>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> CFP for work relating to DPV and Solid shared by beatriz on the mailing list - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Feb/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2024Feb/<wbr>0003.html</a></p>
<h4 id=t07>Agenda/Invite missing</h4>
<p id=x040 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> agenda not received for today's meeting</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> will send today's agenda again now and then next week's agenda - tytti to confirm if this is not working</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x043 class=summary> Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED MAR-06 15:00 WET / 16:00 CET.</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> Topics for discussion are 1) DPV resource paper  - harsh, beatriz 2) AI Act discussion - delaram 3) Rights Justification - beatriz, georg, paul 4) DPV v2 and admin - harsh 5) DPIA stuff - tytti</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
