<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 15 October 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>15 October 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/1F109BBA-A5C0-4744-BE34-F9DE8E461A2D@wu.ac.at"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/10/15-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Axel, Bert, Bud, Harsh</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Bert</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>Axel</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">ISSUES?</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x013 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ACTION-123</p>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/123">ACTION-123</a></strong> Elmar Kiesling to Advertise dpvcg at mydata: place in Community Call (starting Oct, contact Sille) -- due 2019-10-01 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ACTION-126</p>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/126">ACTION-126</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Ask bert to update the cgwebpage to advertise the drafts more prominently. -- due 2019-09-10 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>dialing</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>moment, connection problem</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> @axelpolleres okay, we're clearing up some actions</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary>great, will join in some mins</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> trackbot, close action-126</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-126.</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> trackbot, close action-123</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-123.</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Hi Mitzi, did you get the login details for call?</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary>PROPOSED: accept minutes from last time</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-129?</p>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/129">action-129</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Check in the next telcos, whethrer we're on track for that timplan. -- due 2019-09-10 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> accept minutes from last time</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> in these minutes we should have a timeplan: <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/09/03-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>09/<wbr>03-dpvcg-minutes.html</a><br>
<span id=x037>… Plan/time schedule from a month ago: by today we wanted to  vote for resolutions of all open issues (unless new issues/comments we could then have them incorporated) , start internal reviewing mid october, internal reviews by end october in, incorporated/voted to publish by mid Nov?</span></p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> not that many ACTIONs open.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>ISSUES?</h3>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/open">issues</a></p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> quite a few actions pending review <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/pendingreview">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>pendingreview</a></p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> shall we just move issues we know we won't resolve to POSTPONED issues which we list e.g. as an appendix to the document?<br>
<span id=x044>… PROPOSED: move issue-2 to postponed issues under the following  text: &quot;The group did not concsidr definint any notion of (legal) compliance with respect to a particular legislation in scope of the current specification. While we assume that certain violations of compliance could be recorded with the current vocabulary, but compliance guarantees or compliance checking algorithms are not part of this specification.&quot;</span></p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> +1 modulo typo fixing</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> move issue-2 to postponed issues under the following  text: &quot;The group did not concsider defining any notion of (legal) compliance with respect to a particular legislation in scope of the current specification. While we assume that certain violations of compliance could be recorded with the current vocabulary, compliance guarantees or compliance checking algorithms are not part of this specification.&quot;</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> ISSUE-3: we assume this is about data subject rights in the current discussion.</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-3 Do we want to revisit a definition of &quot;gdpr rights&quot; in our definitions and taxonomies?.</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> e.g. right for rectification, right to be forgotten, etc.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Where would that fit in the vocabulary?</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Are certain rights tied to the legal basis? to the kind of processing?</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>Harsh:</cite> could be either</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s04"><cite>Bud:</cite> not every right is applicable to all kinds of data handling.<br>
<span id=x059>… I wanted to do a transition diagram on the rights and how they connect.</span></p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> we should finihs things up by end of the year to a stable state, but I personally cannot guarantee I can continue to chair beyond.</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> 1) Will Bert continue as chair? 2) Can ask for volunteers to continue the WG?</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bud to try with Eva to come up with a proposal to represent GDPR rights by the end of November.</p>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-132 - Try with eva to come up with a proposal to represent gdpr rights by the end of november. [on Bud P. Bruegger - due 2019-10-22].</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action-132: this action is tied to ISSUE-3</p>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to Action-132 Try with eva to come up with a proposal to represent gdpr rights by the end of november..</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> Bud and Eva will try to come up with partial state-transition diagrams to illustrate the interdependencies of data subject rights</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> issue-6?</p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/6">issue-6</a></strong> Should our taxonomy include a distinction/modeling of data subjects to whom gdpr applies (eu citizens and/or locatedin eu) -- open</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> If someone does want to specify a subset or specialisation of data subjects, e.g. those based in EU, these could be represented by subclassing the DataSubject class and annotating/describing it with required conditions.</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> If we wish to model &quot;EU citizen&quot;, then it needs specifying data subect ⟶ citizen of ⟶ nation ⟶ member state ⟶ EU/EEA</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Additionally, the GDPR also applies to services 'operating in EU/EEA'</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> PROPOSED: We leave the further specification of specific subclasses of DataSubjects out of scope of the current CG, the spec provides just one example,   dpv:Child that could serve as an illustration for other subclasses affecting certain groups of DataSubjects (e.g. Citizens of certain states to which a particular legislation applies, etc.) with this rationale we postpone ISSUE-6.</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r03 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> We leave the further specification of specific subclasses of DataSubjects out of scope of the current CG, the spec provides just one example,  dpv:Child that could serve as an illustration for other subclasses affecting certain groups of DataSubjects (e.g. Citizens of certain states to which a particular legislation applies, etc.) with this rationale we postpone ISSUE-6.</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> issue-9?</p>
<p id=x080 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/9">issue-9</a></strong> Where are categories of data controllers used, where are they useful? (cf. recital 98, 99, 100) -- open</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> PROPOSED: With the same rationale as not defining any particular subclasses or categories of dataSubjects, we leave the concrete definition of particular subcategories of dpv:DataController as an extension point. With this rationale we postpone ISSUE-9</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r04 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> With the same rationale as not defining any particular subclasses or categories of dataSubjects, we leave the concrete definition of particular subcategories of dpv:DataController as an extension point. With this rationale we postpone ISSUE-9</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> issue-10?</p>
<p id=x089 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/10">issue-10</a></strong> Are there mappings to gics from other coding systems naics/nace/isic ... -- open</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg/dpv-nace">dpvcg/<wbr>dpv-nace</a></p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/ns/dpv#vocab-purposes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>ns/<wbr>dpv#vocab-purposes</a></p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Example of NACE and DPV-NACE</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> &quot;dpv-nace: NACE-CODE&quot; in Section 5 looks weird</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to fix the extra space in &quot;dpv-nace: NACE-CODE.&quot; in Section 5</p>
<p id=x096 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: could not connect to Tracker.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Since ACTION-87 is long overdue, I would prefer to close it as undone and leave GICS as an extension point for the future.<br>
<span id=x100>… PROPOSED: to close ACTION-87 and also postpone ISSUE-10 with the following rationale: at the moment the spec only defines a schemafor business sector codes in NACE, we leave the definition of (mappings to) other business sector code standards such as eg. GICS to future extensions.</span><br>
<span id=x101>… +1</span></p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x104 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r05 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> to close ACTION-87 and also postpone ISSUE-10 with the following rationale: at the moment the spec only defines a schemafor business sector codes in NACE, we leave the definition of (mappings to) other business sector code standards such as eg. GICS to future extensions.</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> FYI: EU RAMON provides conversion tables in case someone wants to take up this work - <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/ramon/relations/index.cfm?TargetUrl=LST_REL&amp;StrLanguageCode=EN&amp;IntCurrentPage=11">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>eurostat/<wbr>ramon/<wbr>relations/<wbr>index.cfm?TargetUrl=LST_REL&amp;StrLanguageCode=EN&amp;IntCurrentPage=11</a></p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> next telco 29th october. Note: we are probably a bit behind the timeplan, but still can make it to publish until the end of the year.<br>
<span id=x109>… Adjourned</span></p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Bud to try with Eva to come up with a proposal to represent GDPR rights by the end of November.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">harsh to fix the extra space in &quot;dpv-nace: NACE-CODE.&quot; in Section 5</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">accept minutes from last time</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">move issue-2 to postponed issues under the following  text: &quot;The group did not concsider defining any notion of (legal) compliance with respect to a particular legislation in scope of the current specification. While we assume that certain violations of compliance could be recorded with the current vocabulary, compliance guarantees or compliance checking algorithms are not part of this specification.&quot;</a></li>
<li><a href="#r03">We leave the further specification of specific subclasses of DataSubjects out of scope of the current CG, the spec provides just one example,  dpv:Child that could serve as an illustration for other subclasses affecting certain groups of DataSubjects (e.g. Citizens of certain states to which a particular legislation applies, etc.) with this rationale we postpone ISSUE-6.</a></li>
<li><a href="#r04">With the same rationale as not defining any particular subclasses or categories of dataSubjects, we leave the concrete definition of particular subcategories of dpv:DataController as an extension point. With this rationale we postpone ISSUE-9</a></li>
<li><a href="#r05">to close ACTION-87 and also postpone ISSUE-10 with the following rationale: at the moment the spec only defines a schemafor business sector codes in NACE, we leave the definition of (mappings to) other business sector code standards such as eg. GICS to future extensions.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
