<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 11 OCT 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>11 OCT 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/3228df35-afc8-4125-be1d-219c5cfd3aff/20231011T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">MAJOR Changes</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Non-personal data in scope</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Repo restructuring</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">RDFS/SKOS default serialisation</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">Categories of Data Subjects</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Latest Consent State</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-10-11">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-10-11</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>MAJOR Changes</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>The three issues will be implemented together as they represent major changes. </p>
<h4 id=t02>Non-personal data in scope</h4>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (by coolharsh55) [scope] [concepts] [question]</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>No further comments have been made on the acceptance of this since the last meeting.</p>
<h4 id=t03>Repo restructuring</h4>
<p id=x015 class=summary>No further comments have been made on the acceptance of this since the last meeting.</p>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">Issue 107</a></strong> Restructure repo layout (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [question]</p>
<h4 id=t04>RDFS/SKOS default serialisation</h4>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/113">Issue 113</a></strong> Make RDFS+SKOS the default serialisation, remove 'DPV/SKOS' concepts (by coolharsh55) [adoption] [documentation] [scope] [review]</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>No further comments have been made on the acceptance of this since the last meeting.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Categories of Data Subjects</h3>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/116">Issue 116</a></strong>  Add Intended and Active Data Subject categories (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [question]</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary>From the discussion on the mailing list, we have 6 concepts across 3 categories - Active/Passive, Intended/Unintended, and Informed/Uninformed. Question is whether these should be categories or statuses?</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>The group discussed, and agreed that these concepts are also useful for other concepts, such as Controllers, Processing, Recipients. Therefore, how to represent them efficiently is an open question.</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>The arguments made were - categories allow expressing something as a type and thus can be explicit e.g. Active Data Subject , whereas status allows indicating something contextually and can change e.g. Informed. </p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>Both approaches have their uses, however it is unclear as to how these should be expressed e.g. using what relation? And whether using these as statuses requires complex uses such as blank nodes to indicate e.g. data subject is informed?</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>The group will deliberate on these questions and discuss this within the next meeting. Aim is to try out the different models and see what their pros and cons are for modelling this information.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Latest Consent State</h3>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/90">Issue 90</a></strong> Provide guidance for implementing ISO/IEC 27560 Consent Records using DPV (coolharsh55) documentation, use-case, application</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary>work in progress is here - <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/guides/consent-27560,">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>guides/<wbr>consent-27560,</a> planning to finish the draft and share for review.</p>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114">Issue 114</a></strong>  In 27560-records, how to identify the latest consent state? #114 (coolharsh55) application, concepts, question, review</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary>Question on how to point to the latest consent event or state i.e. how to quickly know whether consent has been given or not without requiring interpretation of the entire record. Option 3 was preferred in the last meeting. </p>
<p id=x032 class=summary>Pat via GitHub issue has discussed provenance - the question being how to keep a record of all consent events, and then how to point to the latest consent status.</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>An option to indicate the latest state is use of <code>sioc:latest_version</code> - <a href="http://rdfs.org/sioc/spec/#term_latest_version">http://<wbr>rdfs.org/<wbr>sioc/<wbr>spec/#term_latest_version</a></p>
<p id=x034 class=summary>Another option is to use <code>dpv:hasRecord</code> to store instances of <code>ConsentStatus</code> with timestamps and other information, and to then use <code>hasConsentStatus</code> to indicate the latest status. The issue with this is that the record cannot be immutable or append-only as the consent status would have to be updated with every iteration.</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary>After discussion, the group agrees that it is best left to implementation for storing the latest consent state, and that 27560 itself does not have a field for the 'latest consent state' - if no suitable options are found.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x037 class=summary>The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED OCT-18 15:00 WEST / 16:00 CEST. Agenda includes discussions on: 1) Data Subject categories (now extended to other concepts); 2) Automation and Human Involvement concepts (<a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">w3c/<wbr>dpv#108</a>) led by Delaram; 3) ISO/IEC 27560 implementation; 4) AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
