<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 29 JUN 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>29 JUN 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/06/01-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, mark, paul, ted</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>beatriz</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>beatriz</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Data Breach extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Impact of changes from DGA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Multilingual Translations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Data Governance Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Data Breach extension</h3>
<p id=x011 class=summary>review of data breach document</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>see email: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jun/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jun/<wbr>0003.html</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>see document: <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/data-breach/">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>data-breach/</a></p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong> Provide concepts for Data Breach (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>review by: georg, paul, julian</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>georg and paul went through the data breach document.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> two issues: (1) include in the document the examples mentioned in EDPB’s guidelines on data breaches and (2) align the labeling of the data breaches notification concepts with the NIS 2 directive</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Include EDPB examples in the Data Breach document</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Investigate NIS2 notification concepts for use with Data Breach notifications</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>paul:</cite> agree with these suggestions; is it possible to check a spreadsheet with the data breaches concepts and its definitions </p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create spreadsheet with Data Breach concepts</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Finish sections 7 to 9 of data breaches document for people to review it for next week’s meeting</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Impact of changes from DGA</h3>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>paul:</cite> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 89</a></strong> Add DGA/eIDAas entities (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>paul:</cite> There was an agreement between the participants that the best course of action would be to change the labels of the terms from personal data to ‘any’ data and do it as soon as possible.</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>ted:</cite> (and mark) how to make a distinction between what is personal or non-personal data, this might change according to the context, might be something that is out of scope for the activities of the group but the general feeling is that it is worth to discuss it</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>paul:</cite> what is going to happen with the personal data handling concept and all the properties that connect it with the other taxonomies – should be model a higher level concept for ‘any’ data handling and a non-personal data handling?</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> Consensus was that this should be something that we define as soon as possible to move forward with the work on DGA and other regulations</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>mark:</cite> is it in the scope of DPV to model secondary uses of data?</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Finalise decisions on the impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Multilingual Translations</h3>
<p id=x034 class=summary> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">#89</a></p>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">Issue 89</a></strong> Multi-lingual labels and descriptions for concepts (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary> No updates</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Data Governance Act</h3>
<p id=x038 class=summary> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></p>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 89</a></strong> Add DGA/eIDAas entities (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary> Proposed terms for DGA have been moved to dpv repo under <code>dpv-dga</code>, see PR by beatriz <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/97">w3c/<wbr>dpv#97</a></p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/97">#97</a></p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/97">Issue 97</a></strong> add proposed terms from DGA (besteves4)</p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> PR by Ted accepted - it fixes typos and other minor corrections</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/98">#98</a></p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/98">Issue 98</a></strong> Fix various typos and such (TallTed)</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary> Shared spreadsheet with participants to review concepts and their definitions.</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> There was an agreement on adding the processing operations to the main DPV spec.</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> Discussions around the usage of <em>altruistic purposes</em> – there was an agreement of separating the ‘<em>data altruism</em>’ concept from the purposes themselves and use both concepts simultaneously to flag an altruistic purpose, i.e., <code>ex:altruisticScientificResearch rdf:type dpv:DataAltruism, dpv:ScientificResearch</code>.</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Participants will review DGA concepts for discussion next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x051 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on JUL-06 at 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST.</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary> Topics for discussion will include (1) Review sections 7 to 9 of data breaches document; (2) Impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling; (3) Review DGA concepts.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Include EDPB examples in the Data Breach document</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Investigate NIS2 notification concepts for use with Data Breach notifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Create spreadsheet with Data Breach concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Finish sections 7 to 9 of data breaches document for people to review it for next week’s meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Finalise decisions on the impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Participants will review DGA concepts for discussion next week</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
