<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call 21-OCT-2020 &ndash; 21 October 2020</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call 21-OCT-2020</h1>
<h2>21 October 2020</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Oct/0001.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2020/10/21-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, GeorgeLioudakis, PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPVCG Workshop 04-NOV-2020</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPVCG Workshop 04-NOV-2020</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>We have an agenda at <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Workshop20201104">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Workshop20201104</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>Items will be attended to in order of the agenda on the day of the workshop</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>For terms, we will use the <a href="spreadsheethttps://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11bjy424zwC_j4bj9pnhmmI8o7RgrJfX4NgsZ31iR3Wo/edit?usp=sharing">spreadsheethttps://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>11bjy424zwC_j4bj9pnhmmI8o7RgrJfX4NgsZ31iR3Wo/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>Terms will be collected from mailing list and added to the spreadsheet as proposed or resolved</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>Beatriz will be leading the collection of terms</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>For people planning to join, please add your preference (or simply register interest) on the poll at <a href="https://framadate.org/dpvcg-workshop-4NOV20">https://<wbr>framadate.org/<wbr>dpvcg-workshop-4NOV20</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Next meeting will be the workshop on 4-NOV</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>Link to be circulated on the internal mailing-list</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
