<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG &ndash; 07 August 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG</h1>
<h2>07 August 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Aug/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/08/07-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AxelPollleres, Bert, simonstey</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>AxelPolleres</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>AxelPollleres, Bert, Harald</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">roll call, scribe selection</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Minutes of last time</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">fix call-details for future calls</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">discuss F2F at MyData, how can we reach out broader?</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">discuss templates for use cases/requirements and vocabularies (what is a requirement?)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AOB</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Hi all!</p>
<p id=x003 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Hello!</p>
<p id=x004 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> Hello</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to include links to IRC and minutes into the agenda next time</p>
<p id=x014 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald&gt;</cite> Notes from the DPVCG 1st telco held on August 7th, 16:00 Brussels Time,</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>roll call, scribe selection</h3>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Stefano introduces himself.</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Stefano, WAAG works on a European project around Blockchain.</p>
<p id=x018 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> <a href="http://www.decode.eu/">http://<wbr>www.decode.eu/</a></p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> sorry wrong link due to slow internet</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald&gt;</cite> Goal: Contribute to joint aim with ideas for standardisation around data protection  / privacy in the field of infomed consent.</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/07/23-dpvcg-minutes.html#meeting">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>07/<wbr>23-dpvcg-minutes.html#meeting</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> the correct one is <a href="https://decodeproject.eu/">https://<wbr>decodeproject.eu/</a></p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>AxelPollleres summarizes the group's goals, gives pointers.</p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> minutes from last time <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Jul/0008.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Jul/<wbr>0008.html</a></p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald&gt;</cite> Axel: Introduction to this cal. Minutes from the last call are in the wWiki (link above).</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary>user page <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/User:Apollere2">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>User:Apollere2</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=summary>Individual introductions: There had been a ToDo for all to introduce themselves in the Wiki. A page is automatically created for every user upon login.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Please, add something about yourself on your wiki profile page.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Minutes of last time</h3>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> comments on the minutes?</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> A question about the wiki:<br>
<span id=x034>… I saw new use cases. How do I make a sub-page?</span></p>
<p id=x035 class=summary>group home page <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/</a></p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Let's talk about that at the agenda topic on use cases.</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Actions</h3>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Have action points been closed already?</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary>ACTION-3 continued</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-3 Clarify which github space we can use W3C's github space or if we need something else.</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> question: do we mark our assigned actions as closed by ourselves or review them in meetings before closing?</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> See the tracker.</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary>ACTION-4 done</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-4 Draft a page afor ORDL.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> action-4?</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/4">action-4</a></strong> VÃ­ctor RodrÃ­guez-Doncel to Draft a page afor ORDL -- due 2018-08-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2005/06/tracker/irc">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2005/<wbr>06/<wbr>tracker/<wbr>irc</a></p>
<p id=x050 class=summary>close ACTION-4</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-4.</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary>Close ACTION-5</p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-5.</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s03"><cite>Bert:</cite> I added some pages for action-7, but not done yet.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action-8, Additions done by Axel, but there could be more, so not closing the action yet.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> action-8 not done yet.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>fix call-details for future calls</h3>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Agenda: 1) fix call-details for future calls:</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We have a WebEx reservation.<br>
<span id=x061>… <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-dpvcg/2018Aug/0000.html">call-in info</a></span></p>
<p id=x062 class=summary>we have permanent Webex which is accessible as per the link put in by Bert.</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary>link is accessible to group members through the W3C account,</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s03"><cite>Bert:</cite> current telcon schedule is every two weeks, Can change that if we want.</p>
<p id=x065 class=summary>Currrently set up for biweekly on Tuesdays at 16:00.</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Schedule seems OK.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>discuss F2F at MyData, how can we reach out broader?</h3>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> MyData conference: No contact has been established yet.</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary>who plans to be at Mydata?</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I still have to contact the conf. org. to get a room. But who is planning to come?</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s04"><cite>Harald:</cite> I plan to come to our session, but not the whole conference.</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> One slot with interoperability as the main content planned.</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Idea is to present the group at the conf. But the conf. itself is also interesting, normally.</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s04"><cite>Harald:</cite> If there are very few people, maybe I won't come.<br>
<span id=x076>… What is the date, exactly?</span></p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Session Aug 30th. 10:00-11:15</p>
<p id=x078 class=summary>My data session is at August 30, 10:00am-11:15 Eastern Europ Time (Helsinki) <a href="https://mydata2018.org/sessions/semantic-interoperability-and-transparency/">https://<wbr>mydata2018.org/<wbr>sessions/<wbr>semantic-interoperability-and-transparency/</a></p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I can try to organize a meeting after that session.<br>
<span id=x081>… Session Thursday, Aug 30th. 10:00-11:15 (Helsinki-time!) Maybe a call can be organized a call later that day for those people unable to attend.</span></p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> If not on that day, then maybe a call on Friday morning.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to organize a call later on 30th after the mydata session or on Friday morning to sync with people jooining through the conference.... will contact organizers.</p>
<p id=x084 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-10 - Organize a call later on 30th after the mydata session or on friday morning to sync with people jooining through the conference.... will contact organizers. [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-08-14].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>discuss templates for use cases/requirements and vocabularies (what is a requirement?)</h3>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Any more industry links?</p>
<p id=x087 class=summary>Eva sent around the link to industry partners, Harald advertised in a German Big Data Project.</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s04"><cite>Harald:</cite> Looked at legal experts in big data, nobody joined so far.</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Can maybe reach out to industrial data spaces project and another Austrian Big Data project (DMA).</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to reach out to industrial data spaces project (Germany) and another Austrian Big Data project (DMA).</p>
<p id=x091 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: could not connect to Tracker.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Harald reached out to German group of Big Data experts. Will reach out to further data protection people.<br>
<span id=x094>… requirements and vocabularies (what is a requirement?)/requirements and vocabularies</span></p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies#Requirements">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies#Requirements</a></p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies</a></p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Templates have been made in our wiki.<br>
<span id=x101>… Some vocabularies have been created already.</span><br>
<span id=x102>… Harsh made the templates.</span><br>
<span id=x103>… Comments by Eva on the templates: As for the use case add a number and title for better strcture. Maybe allow for sub-use cases.</span></p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> The use cases template could be even more structured. Maybe an identifier or number, a title, a list of sub-pages/sub-categories.<br>
<span id=x106>… also actors and components of the use case.</span></p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> Besides use case overview a section on actors may be useful. Eva may send around her suggestions to the mailing list.<br>
<span id=x109>… I can send my suggestions to the mailing list.</span></p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2016/poe/wiki/Use_Cases#Use_Case_Template">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2016/<wbr>poe/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use_Cases#Use_Case_Template</a> what about that template?</p>
<p id=x111 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> The requirements template: do we need to differnetiate categories of requirements, such as legal or technical.</p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> Should we differentiate between types of conferences (legal, functional, technical, interoperability?). Axel so far intentionally went for a slim appraoch.</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> this for requirements <a href="https://www.w3.org/2016/poe/wiki/Requirements#NOTES_on_discussing_and_approving_requirements">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2016/<wbr>poe/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Requirements#NOTES_on_discussing_and_approving_requirements</a> ?</p>
<p id=x116 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I put what we had in the workshop, but we should discuss, today, what we need exactly.<br>
<span id=x117>… We want to have various taxonomies.</span><br>
<span id=x118>… The final requirements from the workshop were not very clear.</span></p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> The requirements may influence the descriptions of the use cases.<br>
<span id=x121>… If we do use cases first, we may need to rewrite them later.</span></p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I'm not sure if the uses cases need to be so central.<br>
<span id=x125>… We can say that people should suggest requirements by e-mail before the next telcon.</span></p>
<p id=x127 class="phone s04"><cite>Harald:</cite> Or in the wiki, but noted as &quot;not yet voted on&quot;</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We all work on use cases. Just collect what is out there, e.g. to understand the mind set and interests of the other group members.</p>
<p id=x129 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I'm interested in what the people in the group are working on.</p>
<p id=x132 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Is it OK that we leave those that are there now, and send suggestions by mail?</p>
<p id=x133 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> OK.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> all to suggest/propose additional Requirements on the mailing list (and mark them as &quot;to be discussed&quot;)</p>
<p id=x135 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'all'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> More people will see them on the mailing list.</p>
<p id=x139 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> In general. whenever you add something new to the wiki, annouce it on the mailinglist.<br>
<span id=x140>… Whenever something is edited and added new please announce it to the group via e-mail</span></p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s05"><cite>simonstey:</cite> To respond to Eva_ULD:<br>
<span id=x149>… I agree to do requirements first, before use cases. But every requirements should have a use case.</span><br>
<span id=x150>… Other wise the requirement isn't really required.</span><br>
<span id=x151>… After the workshop, we already have some use cases.</span><br>
<span id=x152>… I posted two links above with templates.</span><br>
<span id=x153>… I recommend we follow those.</span><br>
<span id=x154>… Implies that every requirement has a use case.</span></p>
<p id=x155 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Coverage list for all requirements?</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s05"><cite>simonstey:</cite> Requirements are linked to uses cases they come from, and eventually also linked to the solution.</p>
<p id=x157 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> The current list of requirements is just the list of goals from the workshop.</p>
<p id=x159 class="phone s05"><cite>simonstey:</cite> We may need a categorization of requirements.<br>
<span id=x160>… Different levels, different parts of the process. But maybe categorize them when we have more.</span></p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We need better starting points than the current list. simonstey, can you start on a template for requirements?</p>
<p id=x162 class="phone s05"><cite>simonstey:</cite> The template is not very long.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Eva_ULD to look over use cases template</p>
<p id=x164 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Eva_ULD'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x165 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva_ULD:</cite> I can send some suggestions for the requirements template to the mailing list, too.</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> simonstey to look over requirements template</p>
<p id=x167 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-12 - Look over requirements template [on Simon Steyskal - due 2018-08-14].</p>
<p id=x168 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Who has more use cases? stefano?</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s06"><cite>stefano:</cite> I plan to add my use case.</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> stefano to propose use case(s) for the Decode project</p>
<p id=x171 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-13 - Propose use case(s) for the decode project [on Stefano Bocconi - due 2018-08-14].</p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We have quite a list of vocabularies already.<br>
<span id=x175>… Can people align them with the template?</span><br>
<span id=x176>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Template_for_vocabularies">vocabulary template</a></span></p>
<p id=x177 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Try to make cross-references to requirements and use cases.</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> all who proposed vocabularies to align them to the template</p>
<p id=x179 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'all'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x180 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Asking contributors of vocabularies to align them to the template, timeframe: until next telco.</p>
<p id=x181 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Also will do for Data Protection ontology by Bartolini et. al.</p>
<p id=x183 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Harsh will look into GDPRov, PDPRTEXT, PROV-O, PPLAN,<br>
<span id=x184>… we leave ODRL with Victor for now.</span></p>
<p id=x185 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x187 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Stefane will look at P3P ...<br>
<span id=x188>… Harsh will look into DPO</span></p>
<p id=x190 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> P3P has a few terms, I put some links already.<br>
<span id=x191>… DPO = data protection ontology</span></p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to ask Hendrik for edition IEEE 7012</p>
<p id=x196 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: could not connect to Tracker.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x199 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Apologies, my mic wasn't on. My query was: P3P has lots of criticisms directed at it. Should these also be part of the vocabulary description on the wiki</p>
<p id=x201 class="phone s07"><cite>Javier:</cite> I can work on SPLOG.<br>
<span id=x202>… The others can maybe be put together under usage-policy</span></p>
<p id=x203 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Javier can do SPLOG, and unify other SPECIAL vocabs.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AOB</h3>
<p id=x206 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Asking for any other business....<br>
<span id=x207>… one call before MyData conference. Goal for next call, see what to present and discuss in Helsinki.</span></p>
<p id=x211 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> My goal is to have some things on the wiki, so we can present somethig at MyData.<br>
<span id=x212>… we have one more call before then.</span><br>
<span id=x213>… Also, if you have topics to discuss, send them to the mailing list.</span><br>
<span id=x214>… adjourned , hear you in two weeks</span></p>
<p id=x215 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> Thanks</p>
<p id=x216 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> thanks, bye</p>
<p id=x219 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Thanks all!</p>
<p id=x240 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> s/DPO:/DPO =/</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Axel to include links to IRC and minutes into the agenda next time</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to organize a call later on 30th after the mydata session or on Friday morning to sync with people jooining through the conference.... will contact organizers.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Axel to reach out to industrial data spaces project (Germany) and another Austrian Big Data project (DMA).</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">all to suggest/propose additional Requirements on the mailing list (and mark them as &quot;to be discussed&quot;)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Eva_ULD to look over use cases template</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">simonstey to look over requirements template</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">stefano to propose use case(s) for the Decode project</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">all who proposed vocabularies to align them to the template</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Axel to ask Hendrik for edition IEEE 7012</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
