<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 27 APR 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>27 APR 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/2a930fa0-4dd1-4a89-87d0-c87defee9a2f"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg, julian, markLizar, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>paul</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>paul</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DGA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Data Breach</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DGA</h3>
<p id=x011 class=summary>Georg and Beatriz are gathering concepts to express the EU Data Governance Act  - This is a work in progress and we should put it on the agenda for  next week </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Data Breach</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a> </p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>There are no new concepts offered for the breach, although Georg requires a concept for breach/incident notification </p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>The attendees suggest a general discussion on concepts for notification. </p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Mark has presented some  of his work  in this area and there may be merit in  modeling concepts  around notifications  </p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Mark gave a high-level overview of his work of notice consents /receipts. He is keen to have a  modeling solution for notices in general, hence we suggested a broader discussion on this topic. This may cover Georg's breach and incident notice requirement</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
