<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 14 SEP 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>14 SEP 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/61afa171-0198-42f1-b493-65e954430e65/20230914T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/14-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg, harsh, iain, paul, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>delaram</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Modelling Legal Bases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Consent &amp; Permissions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-09-14">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-09-14</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>Reminder that there are two MAJOR changes planned - see #99 inclusion of non-personal data in scope; and #107 changes to repo structure</p>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (by coolharsh55) [scope] [concepts] [question]</p>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">Issue 107</a></strong> Restructure repo layout (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [question]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Modelling Legal Bases</h3>
<p id=x015 class=summary> To advance further on the modelling of legal bases, we need to identify concepts relevant. See #111</p>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">Issue 111</a></strong> Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The SmashHit H2020 project, which has concluded, modelled consent and contract ontologies. We have a good coverage of consent within DPV, so the contract concepts can be adopted. Tek, one of the creators of the ontology, has volunteered to provide the concepts. SmashHit is <a href="https://smashhit.eu/">https://<wbr>smashhit.eu/</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Amongst other concepts, we need to identify information such as contract types, statuses (e.g. proposed, agreed, violated, terminated, ended) - which are contextually relevant to that specific legal basis.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Consent &amp; Permissions</h3>
<p id=x020 class=summary> See discussion thread on mailing list - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Sep/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Sep/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The gist of this discussion is that we need terms based on the user' side of an agreement or reflecting the individual's perspective. In DPV, we model terms mostly on the basis of legal text - so these terms are 'fixed' or 'decisive'.</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Whereas, modelling the perspectives of individuals would be an opinionated exercise, and thus be prone to not being satisfactory to all. Still, we can provide it as an additional extension, and additionally with different intended uses - such as for marketing, health, or specific applications.</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>iain:</cite> the internet has become more complex, and the current model is broken because it is only controlled by the entities at one end. We need to move to a different model. Similar to how the change is from oil based cars to electric cars is a better and greener change, we need something from the side of the individual.</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> And with the recent move towards decentralisation and federation of control, this is necessary to have the individual's perspectives be reflected. Although, in DPVCG, we should be careful and aim to not repeat efforts where existing ones exist and are usable. For example, IEEE P7012 is working on this.</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>iain:</cite> P7012 is not finalised and still figuring out where it is going. MyData has an ontology from the user's perspectives that is in development. The Finnish government has &quot;individually controlled&quot; (ic) as an ontology they are developing based on the MyData model as well.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> as mentioned in the mailing list, we can start with ISO/IEC 29184 and do both legal and user vocabularies.<br>
<span id=x028>â€¦ note #91 In today's meeting, we discussed implementing 29184 as two vocabularies - one reflecting the legal concepts (that exist in DPV) and another representing the individual's perspectives (that will be new). See minutes <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-09-14">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-09-14</a></span></p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/91#issuecomment-1720099121">comment</a></p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> The Solid WG charter <a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/proposed-solid-wg-charter.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2023/<wbr>09/<wbr>proposed-solid-wg-charter.html</a> does not have DPVCG as a liason or collaboration potential the same way that the Solid CG charter does.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x032 class=summary> The schedule for the meeting has changed to WED 15:00 WEST / 16:00 CEST.</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> Topics for discussion include 27560 implementation (work in progress <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/guides/consent-27560)">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>guides/<wbr>consent-27560)</a> and user-side taxonomy (if there are any updates)</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
