<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 JUL 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 JUL 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0/20230706T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/06/01-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul, ted</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Data Breach extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Impact of changes from DGA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>minutes - <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>Multi-lingual translations - no updates (georg)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Data Breach extension</h3>
<p id=x012 class=summary>review of data breach document</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>see email: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jun/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jun/<wbr>0003.html</a></p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>see document: <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/data-breach/">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>data-breach/</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong> Provide concepts for Data Breach (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> concepts from the previous emails and the guidance document have been collated into a spreadsheet as requested in the last meeting - <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JT0dYFUiEomuP5EvoivuCUX6H78d7I839VeT5o-4-bE/edit?usp=sharing">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1JT0dYFUiEomuP5EvoivuCUX6H78d7I839VeT5o-4-bE/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>DONE:</cite> Create spreadsheet with Data Breach concepts</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> There are comments on the data breach document (shared Google Doc), and in addition there are also incident notifications mentioned in the NIS2 and DORA regulations</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I have included the changes from the Google Doc into the guidance document. For NIS2 and DORA, we should treat them as a separate proposal since data breach notifications are a distinct regulatory action. The goal would be to create a similar structure that all incident notifications are interoperable, with regulation specific variations as needed. I am working on the NIS2 concepts based on georg's provided analysis.</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> pending actions that are carried over</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Include EDPB examples in the Data Breach document</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Investigate NIS2 notification concepts for use with Data Breach notifications</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Finish sections 7 to 9 of data breaches document for review</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Impact of changes from DGA</h3>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></p>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 89</a></strong> Add DGA/eIDAas entities (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">#99</a></p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (coolharsh55)</a></p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Email sent around by harsh regarding changes of concepts and impact on DPV. First question is whether the non-personal data concepts should be considered in scope. Second question is how they should be added. There are 4 options for addition, along with their impact on the existing structure and concepts in DPV. See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0003.html</a><br>
<span id=x033>… Option 1 is to change the core concepts, e.g. Purpose, to refer to both personal and non-personal data. This will mean a MAJOR change to DPV. We take input from community whether to use a new namespace, e.g. <code>dpv/v2</code>. Option 2 is creating a new extension for non-personal data. No impact on existing use of DPV, but large duplication of concepts in new extension. Option 3 is to discard the proposal. Option 4 is the same as option 1, except we create a new vocabulary and discontinue dpv. This gives license to make major changes, but has the drawback that people will have to find it and opt in.</span><br>
<span id=x034>… My preference is for option 1, with making changes to existing vocabulary if possible, otherwise having a new namespace if needed based on feedback</span></p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> sent email reply - yes to Q1, NO for vocabulary for non-personal data, for Q2 prefer option 1 but would like to discuss option 4.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>beatriz:</cite> sent email reply - yes to Q1, NO for non-personal data taxonomy, for Q2 option 1.</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> okay, so we keep inviting feedback and making a record of changes. This is an important and major proposal - so giving people time to find the questions, think about impact, and discuss it here is important. Right now people might be on vacation due to summer. So we will keep a rolling discussion on this until August or September and then try to find a resolution so that the v2 vocabulary might be released by year end.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Invite feedback and discussion on the impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x040 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on JUL-13 at 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST.</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> Topics for discussion will include (1) Data Breach extension - review spreadsheet and document - harsh, georg, paul; (2) DGA concepts - beatriz, georg; (3) Risk Management concepts - delaram; (4) Impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Include EDPB examples in the Data Breach document</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Investigate NIS2 notification concepts for use with Data Breach notifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Finish sections 7 to 9 of data breaches document for review</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Invite feedback and discussion on the impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
