<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 08 MAY 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>08 MAY 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240508T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>alexJarju, anaGardano, beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, paulRyan, steveHickman, tyttiRintamaki, victorLopezJuarez</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog, iainHenderson</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Consent Controls</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Technology Purpose</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Tech concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x010 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-05-08">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-05-08</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Justifications</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPR’s rights (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> okay with the outputs</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> okay with the outputs</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> that concludes the discussion with okay from paul, beatriz, and georg and we will add them to v2. For the GDPR rights, we will think about how to express the relation for v2.1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Consent Controls</h3>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115">Issue 115</a></strong> Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> how do we add controls to obtain/ withdraw consent - there is no exact solution at the moment</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Do we suggest using the existing <code>WithdrawFromActivity</code> or specifically add a term <code>WithdrawConsent</code>? The cons of the second method is that we will need to repeat such actions for all legal basis. </p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Proposal: we keep the consent actions to what is necessary i.e. obtaining, providing, and withdrawing and provide terms specifically for these. For others, like demonstrate, validate, etc. we can have generic controls as proposed in the issue</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> through this, we will be providing specific consent based relations (straightforward solution for those who wish to model consent)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> we should model consent as it has been explicitly mentioned in regulations </p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> Agree with adding specific controls for consent </p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> discussion concluded - No objections for Proposal, to be discussed next week with examples </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Technology Purpose</h3>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/85">Issue 85</a></strong>  Specify 'business process' or 'service goal' in DPV-Tech (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> How to model the goal of the technology </p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Proposal: 1. What is the technology capable of 2. Reuse DPV “has purpose” to say technology has purpose etc. </p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> leave it as purpose.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> confusing to use same term for defining purpose of processing activity or purpose of an AI system. </p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> agrees with Beatriz</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Ideas on how to represent this information and the multiple meanings behind purpose?</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> properties for this in tech extension: “intended purpose”</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> we will then need to distinguish this as intended purpose and applied purpose - and we have dpv:Purpose already covering both, so this will be confusing</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> call it intent, concluded its too vague. Or call it function (use function as capability to model).</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> Discussion concluded without consensus on solution. Agreed to discuss this with furthe examples and ideas.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Tech concepts</h3>
<p id=x040 class="phone s06"><cite>delaramGopayegani:</cite> Need terms: market availablity status, deployer, operator, etc. Is there an umbrella term for these?<br>
<span id=x041>… We have <code>TechnologyActor</code> in tech extension, but nothing to distinguish the non-subject actors.</span></p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> Call user “end user” instead?</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> For now, we have already accepted terms market availablity status, deployer, etc - so we will add this to the Tech extension.</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> We require a mapping of 22989 terms for actors and other concepts - Victor, Alex, Ana to assist with this<br>
<span id=x046>… DPV v2</span></p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> we're getting there, all issues have been discussed and will be resolved, so optimistic about making the intended deadline of May end</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> only remaining work is documentation - data breach, DGA etc - which will be done from existing papers</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x050 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 15 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today's discussions.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
