<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 12 February 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>12 February 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/EC031F3B-800F-40DF-9C37-D6B5041C8FCF@wu.ac.at"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/02/12-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Axel, Bert, Bud, Eva, Fajar, harsh, Javier, Mark, Ramisa, Simon, Stefano</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Martin</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Axel</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>javier</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">action items</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">overview of our current status</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">set next telco</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> gimme a second, dialing.</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> scribe vounteers?</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> I need to leave in ~35 min</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes from last call <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/01/22-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>01/<wbr>22-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve minutes from last call <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/01/22-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>01/<wbr>22-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>action items</h3>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> write an email to Michael Markevich on ACTION-6 and whether he still plans to join.</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'write'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to write an email to Michael Markevich on ACTION-6 and whether he still plans to join</p>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-62 - Write an email to michael markevich on action-6 and whether he still plans to join [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-11, ACTION-19 saved for later, when we have a first stable version.</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-29</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-29.</p>
<p id=x042 class=summary>actions?</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-33 still continued</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary>Harsh and Fajar are taking over ACTION-34</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark just joined</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> looked at categories for purposes and description definition, looking at the scope<br>
<span id=x053>… e.g. data types are definitively in scope</span><br>
<span id=x054>… sector categories as well, UK define the core business purpose as a key activity</span><br>
<span id=x055>… good item to define what's expected from a company</span><br>
<span id=x056>… i.e., the core sector + purpose + core business purpose could be a good indicator of the purpose</span><br>
<span id=x057>… This could be a good discussion point for the WG</span></p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark, ACTION-33: definition of about core business (purpose) plus processing give a description of what purpose is.</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-37 (Axel finished it)</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-37</p>
<p id=x062 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-37.</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> Harsh created a github repository, he can transfer the ownership to the WG: <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg</a></p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-52: we can just use harsh's repo <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg</a></p>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-52 Ask bert about w3c github repository action from august and create a github under w3c for dpvcg.</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-52</p>
<p id=x067 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-52.</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Every let harsh know their github username.</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> Harsh can add people to the repository, he just needs the github username</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-56</p>
<p id=x071 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-56.</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-57</p>
<p id=x073 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-57.</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-59  ... mail <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Feb/0008.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Feb/<wbr>0008.html</a></p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> Eva doubts the criteria for data protection assessment from edpb can be used for the vocabularies<br>
<span id=x077>… but she will send an email with the info</span></p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-59</p>
<p id=x079 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-59.</p>
<p id=x080 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Feb/att-0008/2017-10-04_wp248_rev01_Guidelines_on_DPIA_updated.pdf">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Feb/<wbr>att-0008/<wbr>2017-10-04_wp248_rev01_Guidelines_on_DPIA_updated.pdf</a></p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> can we standardise the restrictions or measures of security ?</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> Low/high risks... Regulators say this cannot be standardise, but I think the criteria can be</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark: we can't really standardise what is low or high risk</p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> the only criterion useful for vocabulary from my point of view would be the data categories themselves, since they are key to detect whether sensitive information may be involved in the processing</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> e.g. in UK the number of employees impacts the high risks<br>
<span id=x087>… also interesting (e.g. in Canada?) not only if it's risk, but what the risks are</span></p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> It's always context dependent<br>
<span id=x091>… depends of the process you have, which data, people involved....</span><br>
<span id=x092>… it's something that we also have partially in our vocabularies, e.g. with data categories</span></p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> criteria can hardly be standardized, except maybe partially in the data categories</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-61</p>
<p id=x095 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-61.</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-60 continued</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>overview of our current status</h3>
<p id=x098 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Axel presents a presentation summarising the status: see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Feb/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Feb/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarL&gt;</cite> Hi..</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/images/f/f9/2019-02-12-DPVCG-status_update.pdf">Axel's slides</a></p>
<p id=x103 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Axel summarises the timeline and some numbers (#telcos, etc.)<br>
<span id=x104>… Having a F2F on march or april might be good</span><br>
<span id=x105>… We could maybe do it in Vienna again, or Dublin</span></p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1 to a ftf, no pref for location</p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> +1 to f2f, but depends on time/date, no pref on location</p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s04"><cite>Fajar:</cite> I cannot do it in these months</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert to set up doodle preferrred dates for F2F in second half of MArch or first half of April</p>
<p id=x110 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'Bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bbos to set up doodle preferred dates for F2F in second half of MArch or first half of April</p>
<p id=x112 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-63 - Set up doodle preferred dates for f2f in second half of march or first half of april [on Bert Bos - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> having trouble with sound and connection again, sorry</p>
<p id=x114 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> :(</p>
<p id=x123 class="phone s04"><cite>Fajar:</cite> Axel continues the presentation of the slides with the status of the DPVCG vocabularies, in particular personal data categories, purposes and processing, as they were discussed actively<br>
<span id=x124>… we need how to connect the dots</span><br>
<span id=x125>… &quot;A personal Data Category is undergoing specified processing by a specific data controller and/or ? for a particular purpose, based on a specific legal ground, with (optionally?) transferred to some recipient specified security measures and restrictions (e.g. storage locations and storage durations).&quot;</span><br>
<span id=x126>… all &quot;boxes&quot; are already in some vocabularies e.g. SPECIAL, while others such as legal grounds or security measures are rather new</span><br>
<span id=x127>… we also discussed (Axel, Harsh, Fajar, Javier) that maybe we need to restrict the purpose to certain business activity/sector</span><br>
<span id=x128>… also Personal data Categories may be subdivided into sensitive data categories</span><br>
<span id=x129>… As for the Personal Data categories, there is a proposal by Harsh and Fajar to start with the initial proposal by the Enterprise Consulting group</span><br>
<span id=x130>… In addition we have more categories for the uses cases, the SPECIAL categories and more from the special categories, GDPR article 9 and 4</span><br>
<span id=x131>… The proposal is to use the  Enterprise Consulting group as the anchor, and map the other onto it</span></p>
<p id=x132 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> connection gone Nirwana again, sigh</p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> I talked to them, we iterated on this (e.g. on inference data), I think it's CC<br>
<span id=x135>… I can invite them to the WG</span></p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Mark to reach out to enterprivacy.com on whether we can use their categories as a starting point, check License, and invite them to our working group.</p>
<p id=x137 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-64 - Reach out to enterprivacy.com on whether we can use their categories as a starting point, check license, and invite them to our working group. [on Mark Lizar - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x138 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Paper for the personal data categories - D. J. Solove, ‘A Taxonomy of Privacy’, Social Science Research Network, Rochester, NY, SSRN Scholarly Paper ID 667622, Feb. 2005. und</p>
<p id=x139 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> the plan is that Harsh and Fajar can work on this and come with a first version within a month</p>
<p id=x140 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> I am very sorry I need to leave, will try to catch up from minutes</p>
<p id=x143 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> As for purposes, we had initial categories of purposes during the last F2F<br>
<span id=x144>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data</a></span><br>
<span id=x145>… see bottom of the page</span></p>
<p id=x146 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> we don't hear anything, let us know when you have specific things for us please</p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> The plan is to integrate the different approaches (Axel and Javier)<br>
<span id=x149>… The question was if we need to include business sectors</span></p>
<p id=x150 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> Hyperledger (content on the blockchain)... they spend several months to look at country codes</p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark: Hyperledger work on consent on Blockchain, looking at business codes and suggest to use financial industry codes GICS would be appropriate.</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> It makes sense to use global industry and sector classification GICS, updated in 2017<br>
<span id=x157>… I would recommend that</span><br>
<span id=x158>… when a company registers, e.g. in UK, they are assigned one code</span><br>
<span id=x159>… there are multiple versions, the global ID seems to be the best option</span><br>
<span id=x160>… the most interoperable</span></p>
<p id=x161 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark: GICS code is driven by financial services, global, would make sense as astarting point.</p>
<p id=x162 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> are there mapping from the other codes to GICS?</p>
<p id=x163 class="phone s01"><cite>MArk:</cite> no that I know</p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> this could be something to do</p>
<p id=x165 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://opencorporates.com/">https://<wbr>opencorporates.com/</a></p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Are there mappings to GICS from other coding systems NAICS/NACE/ISIC ...</p>
<p id=x167 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-10 - Are there mappings to gics from other coding systems naics/nace/isic ....  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/10/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>10/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> I would recommend to have a look also to opencorporate.com<br>
<span id=x170>… it's not global, it's local + ?</span></p>
<p id=x171 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> The next discussion was about legal grounds, we agreed to keep it separated</p>
<p id=x172 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> we see the slides but we still dont hear anything :( Eva plans on continuing on this legal &quot;taxonomy&quot; though</p>
<p id=x173 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> we don't have a taxonomy but the picture from Eva</p>
<p id=x174 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> Axel, can you make an action for me to tend further to this?</p>
<p id=x175 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> As for processing, we have worked less, we have some starting points but we need more work</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Eva and Bud to further elaborate on legal grounds taxonomy</p>
<p id=x177 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-65 - And bud to further elaborate on legal grounds taxonomy [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x178 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> someone volunteering for the processing category?</p>
<p id=x179 class="phone s05"><cite>Harsh:</cite> I have added some terms from the GDPR</p>
<p id=x180 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> The main point is to structure it</p>
<p id=x181 class="phone s05"><cite>Harsh:</cite> I can do, but I might need someone to review</p>
<p id=x182 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> Bud and I can review</p>
<p id=x183 class="phone s06"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> I can help a bit</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to look into structuring Processing categories, Ramisa, Bud, Eva to help/review.</p>
<p id=x185 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-66 - Look into structuring processing categories, ramisa, bud, eva to help/review. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x186 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> just trying to reconnect to webex, no luck so far</p>
<p id=x188 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> :)</p>
<p id=x190 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> As for data controllers/recipients...<br>
<span id=x191>… we have some ideas on the country of the recipients, some initial pointers from SPECIAL, and maybe the possibility to add a sticky policy</span></p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Javier to look into Data controllers and recipients taxonomy with help of  Piero, Axel</p>
<p id=x193 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-67 - Look into data controllers and recipients taxonomy with help of  piero, axel [on Javier D. Fernández - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x195 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Javier and I can continue on that<br>
<span id=x196>… with the help of Piero</span></p>
<p id=x198 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Last points are storage location/duration, security measures...<br>
<span id=x199>… but maybe we can leave them now and focus on the first issues</span></p>
<p id=x200 class="phone s05"><cite>Harsh:</cite> Myself and Mark can look at the forms of consent</p>
<p id=x201 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh looking into Consent elements and types with help of Mark</p>
<p id=x203 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-68 - Looking into consent elements and types with help of mark [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x204 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Then maybe we can leave the storage and security opened as an issue</p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> taxonomies on storrage locations and restrictions as well as security measues and restrictions still undefined.</p>
<p id=x206 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-11 - Taxonomies on storrage locations and restrictions as well as security measues and restrictions still undefined..  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/11/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>11/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x207 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> All actions of today ideally done in a month.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>set next telco</h3>
<p id=x209 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> 26th at 16:00?</p>
<p id=x210 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> 26th would be fine</p>
<p id=x211 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> regrets form harsh, but Mark can report.</p>
<p id=x212 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Goal: progress on actions from today and decidfe for antoher F2F date and location.</p>
<p id=x213 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Harsh, let us know if F2F is OK in Dublin, or you can travel elsewhere</p>
<p id=x214 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> AOB?</p>
<p id=x215 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> Maybe a good place is a privacy conference in May, Germany</p>
<p id=x216 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> if you plan f2f, can you make a doodle?</p>
<p id=x217 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> I will provide more info</p>
<p id=x218 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Merk: EIC (european identity conference) in May ... in Germany might be a good space for us to meet/be present.</p>
<p id=x219 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> @Eva I think Bert has an action to create a doodle?</p>
<p id=x220 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_Bud&gt;</cite> ok</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Mark to report on EIC conference next time</p>
<p id=x222 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ACTION-63</p>
<p id=x223 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-69 - Report on eic conference next time [on Mark Lizar - due 2019-02-19].</p>
<p id=x224 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/63">ACTION-63</a></strong> Bert Bos to Set up doodle preferred dates for f2f in second half of march or first half of april -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x226 class="phone s01"><cite>Mark:</cite> bye!</p>
<p id=x227 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> adjourned</p>
<p id=x228 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> thanks, bye</p>
<p id=x235 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> (I always forget the command ☺)</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">write an email to Michael Markevich on ACTION-6 and whether he still plans to join.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to write an email to Michael Markevich on ACTION-6 and whether he still plans to join</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Bert to set up doodle preferrred dates for F2F in second half of MArch or first half of April</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">bbos to set up doodle preferred dates for F2F in second half of MArch or first half of April</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Mark to reach out to enterprivacy.com on whether we can use their categories as a starting point, check License, and invite them to our working group.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Eva and Bud to further elaborate on legal grounds taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Harsh to look into structuring Processing categories, Ramisa, Bud, Eva to help/review.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Javier to look into Data controllers and recipients taxonomy with help of  Piero, Axel</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Harsh looking into Consent elements and types with help of Mark</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">Mark to report on EIC conference next time</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve minutes from last call https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>01/<wbr>22-dpvcg-minutes</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">Are there mappings to GICS from other coding systems NAICS/NACE/ISIC ...</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">taxonomies on storrage locations and restrictions as well as security measues and restrictions still undefined.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
