<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 17 APR 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>17 APR 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240417T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaram, georg, harsh, iain, julian, paul, steveHickman, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Intended, Active, etc.</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">ISWC resource paper</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-04-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-04-17</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Intended, Active, etc.</h3>
<p id=x010 class="phone s01"><cite>delaram:</cite> for modelling information about what is intended, purpose is needed and there is no mention of AI subject. For ISO taxonomy o transparency, not sure about maturity of standard.</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> purpose in GDPR and intended purpose in AI Act - can be different e.g. sustem can only be used by policy for identify verification</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> also relevant for context and data subject</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s04"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> is georg making a distinction between capability and purpose</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>delaram:</cite> purpose is end-goal, capability is how/what the technology does</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>ISWC resource paper</h3>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/131">Issue 131</a></strong> DPV Resource Paper (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> work on paper underway, beatriz and julian are doing citation analysis. We also need to mention how the industry and projects are using DPV. Any information on these?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s05"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Inrupt is using PD extension. Don't know about Athumi - can check but won't have a reply by deadline.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> Signatu is using DPV for a lot of the legal compliance tooling.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s06"><cite>iain:</cite> JLINC is using DPV for agreement building. In IEEE P7012 the initial ballot has been put forth for moving the standard ahead.</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> highlight that DPV helps higlight which data is sensitive - add as a requirement</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s04"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> any example of tooling?</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> DPCat has an example where we used SHACL shapes to check information is present and is correct</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> mention ISO 27560 use of DPV in paper</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s05"><cite>beatriz:</cite> any response from presentation to Commission? Relevant for Solid &amp; Personal Data Spaces.</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> we're presenting on Thursday, will report back next week </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x028 class=summary> Discussion on time change to accommodate regular members. Time changed to 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST (-1 hour)</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 24 April 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
