<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 27 May 2020</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>27 May 2020</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2020/05/27-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Beatriz, Georg, harsh, Mark, Rana</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x010 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we need to revisit the timeline and deliverables of the DPVCG and agree on prioritising items to work on next. We need a list of things before we prioritise.</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> invite applications and extensions of DPV as well as other related aspects</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Discuss prioritising of items for timeline and deliverables</p>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Discuss'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s02"><cite>Rana:</cite> Is the DPVCG working on organisation's obligations under GDPR?</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> There is a proposed page on the Wiki: <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Obligations">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Obligations</a> but nothing done on it yet<br>
<span id=x017>â€¦ We discussed generating privacy policies and annotating them using DPV - and Signatu (Georg) has expressed interest in conducting this research with(in) DPVCG</span></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>Mark:</cite> is there any idea/interest/opinion on using DPV for health data and medical research?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> There are many many layers of additional requirements and GDPR compliance is the minimum procedural requirement within these. So far the DPVCG has not considered this in scope or to be of interest.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s04"><cite>Georg:</cite> we have privacy policy generator and we can inform which parts of DPV are not covered</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> That would be Task 1 in this work, generating the privacy policy. After that there also needs to be annotations done - so because policies are usually provided in HTML, this could be done via RDFa or microdata.</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s04"><cite>Georg:</cite> current example of generated privacy policy is on <a href="https://signatu.com/">https://<wbr>signatu.com/</a></p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> This can be expressed as executing queries over personal data handling instances e.g. What data is collected? would query data mentioned in instances.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to start discussion on DPVCG timeline and deliverables update</p>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-139 - Start discussion on dpvcg timeline and deliverables update [on Harshvardhan J. Pandit - due 2020-06-03].</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Georg to share missing concepts in DPV for privacy policy generation</p>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Georg'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Georg Philip Krog to share missing concepts in DPV for privacy policy generation</p>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Georg'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Georg to share missing concepts in DPV for privacy policy generation</p>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-140 - Share missing concepts in dpv for privacy policy generation [on Georg Philip Krog - due 2020-06-03].</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s04"><cite>Georg:</cite> SNOMED provides a taxonomy of concepts for medical/health data <a href="https://www.snomed.org/">https://<wbr>www.snomed.org/</a></p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>Rana:</cite> We (with Beatriz, Victor) at UPM are working on ODRL profiles using DPV, and will come back on how that is faring</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>Georg:</cite> Of relevance is the ATTEMPTO project <a href="http://attempto.ifi.uzh.ch/site/">http://<wbr>attempto.ifi.uzh.ch/<wbr>site/</a> that provides resources for writing formal methods/rules for non-familiar users.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Discuss prioritising of items for timeline and deliverables</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">harsh to start discussion on DPVCG timeline and deliverables update</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Georg to share missing concepts in DPV for privacy policy generation</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Georg Philip Krog to share missing concepts in DPV for privacy policy generation</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Georg to share missing concepts in DPV for privacy policy generation</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
