<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 26 February 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>26 February 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/02/26-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert, simonstey</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>Fajar, javier</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Action review</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> attendees: simon, martin k., fajar, ramisa, mark</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve last call's minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/02/12-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>02/<wbr>12-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x007 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve last call's minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/02/12-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>02/<wbr>12-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Action review</h3>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> Action-6 discussion (no email address of Michael)</p>
<p id=x014 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> suggestion: disregard actions until ACTION-27, in future calls, unless something new.</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Shall we get back to ACTION-6, ACTION-11, ACTION-19, ACTION-27 (closed without news)</p>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-12 - Shall we get back to action-6, action-11, action-19, action-27 (closed without news).  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/12/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>12/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>simonstey:</cite> did IDS responded?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> no</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-6</p>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-6.</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-19</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-19.</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-27</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-27.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we leave out Action-11 and reassigned to simonstey</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we leave Action-11 open and reassigned to simonstey</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-33: mark reported in an email, draft expected by end of March.</p>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-33 Summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with mark lizar on &quot;concent receipt&quot; definition (e.g. on delegation).</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>ACTION-34</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/34">ACTION-34</a></strong> Niklas Kirchner to Start structuring categories of personal data and involved dimensions together with elmar and harsh, mark -- due 2018-11-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> not sure if we need to keep</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Feb/0028.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Feb/<wbr>0028.html</a> link to mark's email</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> I'm afraid we didn't have an action for the personal data categories</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> We said to contact the person behind the initial data categories</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-34: seems no longer owned by Niklas.</p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-34 Start structuring categories of personal data and involved dimensions together with elmar and harsh, mark.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> he joined the group, Harsh replied and I followed up suggesting to model the data categories</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark reporting that Jason from enterprivacy has joined the group.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Thus, who is taking care of ACTION-34?</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> Harsh is definitively focused on this task<br>
<span id=x050>… Fajar is also interested</span></p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark, please also involve Fajar in ACTION-34</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> I could help as well</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Just please keep us updated and involved the interested people in the loop<br>
<span id=x055>… ACTION-36</span></p>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/36">ACTION-36</a></strong> Rudy Jacob to Add points 1.-6. from https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html to https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/special/proximus_use_case -- due 2019-02-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> We leave it open and I will send a reminder</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> I had connection problems, can hear you now, but not sure whether my mike works (Eva is on sickleave..)</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-53</p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/53">ACTION-53</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Together with harsh, fajar, javier start on a base ontology, suggest a namespace, etc. and start populate the sub-taxonomies, agree on language to model it. -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> We started the discussion on the namespace but I wanted to stabilise more important things first, let's leave it open<br>
<span id=x065>… ACTION-60</span></p>
<p id=x066 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/60">ACTION-60</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Look at use cases in the wiki to see if one matches the deletion rules ideas eva posted (especially deletion depending on an event or purpose rather than a fixed period) -- due 2019-01-29 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> My mike doesn't wor.k...</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we leave it open I guess<br>
<span id=x071>… ACTION-63</span></p>
<p id=x072 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/63">ACTION-63</a></strong> Bert Bos to Set up doodle preferred dates for f2f in second half of march or first half of april -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x074 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-62</p>
<p id=x075 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/62">ACTION-62</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Write an email to michael markevich on action-6 and whether he still plans to join -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we leave it open but I think we lost the use case<br>
<span id=x079>… ACTION-64</span></p>
<p id=x080 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/64">ACTION-64</a></strong> Mark Lizar to Reach out to enterprivacy.com on whether we can use their categories as a starting point, check license, and invite them to our working group. -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> We can close it.</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-64</p>
<p id=x084 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-64.</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-65</p>
<p id=x086 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/65">ACTION-65</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to And bud to further elaborate on legal grounds taxonomy -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> We haven't made progress</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-66</p>
<p id=x090 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/66">ACTION-66</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Look into structuring processing categories, ramisa, bud, eva to help/review. -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> any progress?</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> We started to discuss today via mail</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> can you hear me?</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s05"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> Harsh sent an email to the group on this action</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> I and Jason replied to that mail...</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s05"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> It's a basic structure for processing that he proposed</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> Yes, he got feedback this afternoon from me on the list</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s05"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> Harsh will be in the office in 2 days and I will follow up on this</p>
<p id=x101 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Feb/0025.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Feb/<wbr>0025.html</a> harsh's email</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to check back with owners which ACTIONS are ready for review and discussion in the call</p>
<p id=x104 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-70 - Check back with owners which actions are ready for review and discussion in the call [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-03-05].</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s05"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> ACTION-67</p>
<p id=x106 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/67">ACTION-67</a></strong> Javier D. Fernández to Look into data controllers and recipients taxonomy with help of piero, axel -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s05"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> ACTION-68</p>
<p id=x109 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/68">ACTION-68</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Looking into consent elements and types with help of mark -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x111 class="phone s05"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> Same as 64</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> Eva and I worked on Recipients, but haven't written a vocabulary down yet</p>
<p id=x115 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> Sorry, we have worked indeed on the consent elements<br>
<span id=x116>… It will be nice to have some legal expert to review before providing it to the list</span><br>
<span id=x117>… please let me know or get in touch</span></p>
<p id=x118 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Maybe Bud?</p>
<p id=x119 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> I am not a legal expert</p>
<p id=x120 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> I'm a techie..</p>
<p id=x121 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> would you be willing to review ACTION-68?</p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Maybe with the help of Eva...</p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> I'll look at it</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bud to review ACTION-68 with the help of Eva</p>
<p id=x125 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-71 - Review action-68 with the help of eva [on Bud P. Bruegger - due 2019-03-05].</p>
<p id=x126 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> If it is too legal, ...</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Maybe Rigo<br>
<span id=x129>… ACTION-69</span></p>
<p id=x130 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/69">ACTION-69</a></strong> Mark Lizar to Report on eic conference next time -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x132 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> I will have to pick this up this week</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> This is the link of github for processing categories : <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg/processing">dpvcg/<wbr>processing</a></p>
<p id=x140 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> done with the actions. The most important then is to find a date for the F2F<br>
<span id=x141>… The goal would be to progress with these actions and review them by the F2F meeting</span><br>
<span id=x142>… I will push Bert to send the doodle and ask everyone to please fill it in</span><br>
<span id=x143>… We also have some issues</span><br>
<span id=x144>… The first is to decide when we have to stop collecting use cases</span><br>
<span id=x145>… but this is replaced with issue-12</span><br>
<span id=x146>… ISSUE-12</span></p>
<p id=x147 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/12">ISSUE-12</a></strong> Shall we get back to action-6, action-19, action-27 (closed without news) -- raised</p>
<p id=x149 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-1 with reference to ISSUE-12</p>
<p id=x150 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> : close ISSUE-1</p>
<p id=x152 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> (see raised issues: <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/raised)">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>raised)</a><br>
<span id=x153>… ISSUE-2</span></p>
<p id=x154 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/2">ISSUE-2</a></strong> Do we need to formulate a notion of compliance in scope of the cg? -- raised</p>
<p id=x159 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> I.e. do we want to revisit the definition of compliance? Maybe we can discuss in the F2F<br>
<span id=x160>… In any case we are working on it</span><br>
<span id=x161>… In the beginning of the WG we had this discussion</span><br>
<span id=x162>… the elements of consents, data, processing, etc</span></p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> There are multiple levels. All of these elements are covered<br>
<span id=x165>… The understanding of consent overall is not very well covered</span></p>
<p id=x166 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> MArk: all the elements of consent mentioned in ISSUE-4 are covered at the moment. GDPR is not defining consent as explicit consent.</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> all privacy law is consent based<br>
<span id=x170>… The definition of GDPR packs many things together and make it difficult</span><br>
<span id=x171>… We have covered all these elements, this initial conversation is covered</span></p>
<p id=x172 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/68">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>68</a></p>
<p id=x175 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we can move on, and make a note on this action<br>
<span id=x176>… we can close ISSUE-4 then</span><br>
<span id=x177>… ISSUE-4</span></p>
<p id=x178 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/4">ISSUE-4</a></strong> What are the elements of consent? starting from "onsent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]" -- raised</p>
<p id=x180 class="phone s06"><cite>Fajar:</cite> In the last slides, Axel had &quot;legal ground&quot;, is this part of the consent?</p>
<p id=x183 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Yes, ISSUE-4 is somehow old<br>
<span id=x184>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/images/f/f9/2019-02-12-DPVCG-status_update.pdf">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>images/<wbr>f/<wbr>f9/<wbr>2019-02-12-DPVCG-status_update.pdf</a></span><br>
<span id=x185>… these were the slides</span></p>
<p id=x186 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Any objections to close ISSUE-4?</p>
<p id=x187 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-4</p>
<p id=x188 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ISSUE-4.</p>
<p id=x189 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> ISSUE-5</p>
<p id=x190 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/5">ISSUE-5</a></strong> Shall we extend the scope of the group to machinge-readable requests to execute rights accroding to eva’s classification of rights -- raised</p>
<p id=x193 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> We might revisit when Eva is around<br>
<span id=x194>… ISSUE-6</span></p>
<p id=x195 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/6">ISSUE-6</a></strong> Should our taxonomy include a distinction/modeling of data subjects to whom gdpr applies (eu citizens and/or locatedin eu) -- raised</p>
<p id=x197 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> We kind of have this issue discussed</p>
<p id=x198 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/raised">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>raised</a></p>
<p id=x200 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Maybe we can discuss all these issues with respect to the drafts by the F2F<br>
<span id=x201>… Any urgent issue?</span></p>
<p id=x202 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Any immediate remarks?</p>
<p id=x205 class="phone s06"><cite>Fajar:</cite> Regarding the personal data categories, I discussed with Harsh about adding provenance information<br>
<span id=x206>… E.g. Adding or delete concepts on the initial enterprivacy categories</span><br>
<span id=x207>… so how deep should we go in the provenance info?</span></p>
<p id=x208 class="phone s07"><cite>Martin:</cite> I think we might need an action on that</p>
<p id=x209 class="phone s06"><cite>Fajar:</cite> Yes, the issue is how deep we should go on the description of the provenance</p>
<p id=x210 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark: opt-in or opt-out makes a difference</p>
<p id=x213 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> It makes a difference if it's opt in or opt out<br>
<span id=x214>… opt out, the data has been collected already, in opt in you have the control</span></p>
<p id=x215 class="phone s06"><cite>Fajar:</cite> As an example of the deepness, if we change the singular or plural of an initial concept.. this is a basic change, but we can also add new concepts</p>
<p id=x216 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Is this an aspect of the personal data category...?</p>
<p id=x217 class="phone s06"><cite>Fajar:</cite> Is it enough to say some high level information?</p>
<p id=x218 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> or document the decisions...</p>
<p id=x219 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> We can have an action on where the provenance fits in the taxonomies</p>
<p id=x220 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> can I assign an action to Fajar?</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> fajar to propose a mechanism to add provenance information for elements in our taxonomy</p>
<p id=x222 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-72 - Propose a mechanism to add provenance information for elements in our taxonomy [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-03-05].</p>
<p id=x223 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> any other immediate open issues?</p>
<p id=x224 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark_L&gt;</cite> Thanks Axel - great call --</p>
<p id=x226 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Otherwise we can talk in 2 weeks, discuss the status of actions and maybe the F2F dates<br>
<span id=x227>… Thanks!</span></p>
<p id=x228 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> Thanks</p>
<p id=x229 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> Thanks!</p>
<p id=x230 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Goal in two weeks, have progress on Actions and fix a realistic date for a F2F, when we expect enough progress to wrap up a first version.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Axel to check back with owners which ACTIONS are ready for review and discussion in the call</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">bud to review ACTION-68 with the help of Eva</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">fajar to propose a mechanism to add provenance information for elements in our taxonomy</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve last call's minutes https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>02/<wbr>12-dpvcg-minutes</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">Shall we get back to ACTION-6, ACTION-11, ACTION-19, ACTION-27 (closed without news)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
