<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 23 May 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>23 May 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019May/0014.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/23-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>axel</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>elmar</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Waiting for Bert to join to hopefully open an alternative Webex...</p>
<p id=x004 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> In the worst case, we can use something similar: <a href="https://meet.jit.si/dpvcg">https://<wbr>meet.jit.si/<wbr>dpvcg</a></p>
<p id=x005 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> feel free to try my link if you wish, it should work</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> fine, we will resort to jit.si....</p>
<p id=x007 class=summary>On my way..</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we will take jit.si for today</p>
<p id=x009 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> thanks!</p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> scribe?</p>
<p id=x013 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> stub spec doc on gdrive... <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/edit?ts=5ce41d64">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/<wbr>edit?ts=5ce41d64</a></p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>Question Axel: How to generate the full document out of the vocubulary sheet on the drive</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes from last call <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/07-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>07-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x018 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> bert, did you complete this action? bert to close actions to be closed as per <a href="https://‌lists.w3.org/‌Archives/‌Public/‌public-dpvcg/‌2019May/‌0001.html">https://<wbr>‌lists.w3.org/<wbr>‌Archives/<wbr>‌Public/<wbr>‌public-dpvcg/<wbr>‌2019May/<wbr>‌0001.html</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> I was not there</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve minutes from last call <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/07-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>07-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>close ACTION-105</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-105.</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> See the email of Harsh with open/closed actions: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019May/0015.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019May/<wbr>0015.html</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> is webex. not working ?</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> we are using <a href="https://meet.jit.si/dpvcg">https://<wbr>meet.jit.si/<wbr>dpvcg</a> now</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> we couldn't set up Webex in the beginning, but we can switch nowif needed</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary>close action-102</p>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-102.</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>close action-101</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-101.</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary>close action-100</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-100.</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary>Regarding action-98 Process for feedback: Axel added a suggestion to the draft version in the google doc - asking for proposals to extend initial taxonomies by additional items</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary>cloise action-98</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary>close action-09</p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-09.</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary>close action-98</p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-98.</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> leave ACTION-97 open for the moment, need to discuss with Harsh still.</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary>close action-95</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-95.</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary>close action-96</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-96.</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Sorry, didn't close those actions in time, but they are closed now.</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/edit?ts=5ce699cd#gid=1163226969">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/<wbr>edit?ts=5ce699cd#gid=1163226969</a></p>
<p id=x050 class=summary>Action-96: Fajar added the NACE sector.</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to Action-96 Consolidate consent part..</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>Question:</cite> Do we need a subclass NaceSector of Sector?<br>
<span id=x055>… Harsh proposed to remove NaceSector and directly use Sector.</span><br>
<span id=x056>… Proposal: have the NACE sectors in the spec, not include all the nace sectors in the dpvcg vocabulary</span></p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> list of purpose: <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg/purposes">dpvcg/<wbr>purposes</a></p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>Question:</cite> The original published NACE list uses skos:broader and skos:narrower, so Fajar created a version that uses rdfs subclasses</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/ramon/nomenclatures/index.cfm?TargetUrl=LST_NOM_DTL&amp;StrNom=NACE_REV2&amp;StrLanguageCode=EN&amp;IntPcKey=&amp;StrLayoutCode=&amp;IntCurrentPage=1">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>eurostat/<wbr>ramon/<wbr>nomenclatures/<wbr>index.cfm?TargetUrl=LST_NOM_DTL&amp;StrNom=NACE_REV2&amp;StrLanguageCode=EN&amp;IntPcKey=&amp;StrLayoutCode=&amp;IntCurrentPage=1</a></p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>Question:</cite> (Original RDF version of nace)<br>
<span id=x062>… Original RDF is not provided anymore, is only available in web archive</span></p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/ramon/nomenclatures/index.cfm?TargetUrl=LST_NOM_DTL&amp;StrNom=NACE_REV2&amp;StrLanguageCode=EN&amp;IntPcKey=18493754&amp;StrLayoutCode=">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>eurostat/<wbr>ramon/<wbr>nomenclatures/<wbr>index.cfm?TargetUrl=LST_NOM_DTL&amp;StrNom=NACE_REV2&amp;StrLanguageCode=EN&amp;IntPcKey=18493754&amp;StrLayoutCode=</a></p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite>  I have to drop for another meeting -  (Happy PrivMas ☺</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>Question:</cite> Happy PrivMas ;)</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Hello. Trying to join webex, link says meeting hasn't started yet...</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>Question:</cite> Hi Harsh, we moved over here: <a href="https://meet.jit.si/dpvcg">https://<wbr>meet.jit.si/<wbr>dpvcg</a></p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> thanks</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Cannot hear any audio, apologies</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s01"><cite>Question:</cite> Proposal: For NACE classification - use dpv:Sector (and remove nace sector) and just leave in a few examples.</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> How do we mark something as &quot;under discussion&quot;?<br>
<span id=x073>… Beneficiary should not be left out, but marked &quot;under discussion&quot;</span></p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> 1) We don't have examples for any other class, so I don't agree with having NACE examples in taxonomy. We can have them in the document.</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> 2) We can mention beneficiary in the document as proposed or under discussion? Or use bibo status to indicate a class is not stable/final ?</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fajar to coordinate with Bert and HArsh, where to place the namespace documents, e.g. dpv-nace</p>
<p id=x077 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-107 - Coordinate with bert and harsh, where to place the namespace documents, e.g. dpv-nace [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-05-30].</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fajar,Harsh to Define location for namespace documents</p>
<p id=x079 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Fajar,Harsh'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bert to Define location for namespace documents</p>
<p id=x081 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert to Define location for namespace documents</p>
<p id=x083 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'Bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bbos to Define location for namespace documents</p>
<p id=x085 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-108 - Define location for namespace documents [on Bert Bos - due 2019-05-30].</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh, do you remember does the script have a way to display the &quot;comments&quot; column as issues to be discussed in the spec generation?</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Comments from the spreadsheet or google doc?</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> axel to check with HArsh whether/how the script have a way to display the &quot;comments&quot; column as issues to be discussed in the spec generation?</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Either way, can try to do that</p>
<p id=x090 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: could not connect to Tracker.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> comments from the spreadsheet</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Can do</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Column J in the sheet</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Would need to edit the script to add comments as issues</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> ask for specific feedback on (un)ambiguity of the term descriptions</p>
<p id=x096 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-21 - Ask for specific feedback on (un)ambiguity of the term descriptions.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/21/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>21/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> elmar to Review comments on personalDataCategory descriptions and see whether we need to discuss, request any specific comments.. on any of them</p>
<p id=x098 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-110 - Review comments on personaldatacategory descriptions and see whether we need to discuss, request any specific comments.. on any of them [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-05-30].</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> close action-94</p>
<p id=x100 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-94.</p>
<p id=x101 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Goal for next time would be to - as soon as possible - send around a generated full document for review. Next time discuss the reviews and decide for publication.</p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adjourned</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> next call on June 4th, 16:00</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Fajar to coordinate with Bert and HArsh, where to place the namespace documents, e.g. dpv-nace</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Fajar,Harsh to Define location for namespace documents</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">bert to Define location for namespace documents</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Bert to Define location for namespace documents</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">bbos to Define location for namespace documents</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">axel to check with HArsh whether/how the script have a way to display the &quot;comments&quot; column as issues to be discussed in the spec generation?</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">elmar to Review comments on personalDataCategory descriptions and see whether we need to discuss, request any specific comments.. on any of them</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve minutes from last call https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>07-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">ask for specific feedback on (un)ambiguity of the term descriptions</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
