<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 07 SEP 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>07 SEP 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Sep/0004.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/09/07-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg, harsh, julian, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">ODRL-CG and DPVCG at TPAC</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v1 planning</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Rights</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>ODRL-CG and DPVCG at TPAC</h3>
<p id=x009 class=summary>See event details and agenda - <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/845fa609-cc65-414f-8960-3fff0c4c0467">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>845fa609-cc65-414f-8960-3fff0c4c0467</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>harsh, beatriz, georg, paul, victor will be present from DPVCG</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>Others are welcome to join, please let us (harsh, victor) know if possible so we can keep track of participation</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary>we will be holding the next meeting on SEP-21 13:00 WEST / 14:00 CEST as most regular members are away at conference or on vacation next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV v1 planning</h3>
<p id=x015 class=summary>The original schedule for DPV v1 estimated the release around September. That plan is no longer viable as there are several items pending, mostly related to documentation.</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>The group discussed today what does &quot;v1&quot; should mean - where based on convention the first version implies some notion of stability in terms of non-changes and completeness</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>For this, we consider whether 1) are any core concepts missing 2) any pertinent issues that must be resolved 3) have developed resources been applied and are useful</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>The discussion yieded the following - we have identified the core concepts and none seem to be missing.</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>The missing sections refer to concepts that can be added as research is completed. These refer to exercising of rights, data breach records, standards, complaint procedures.</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>There is a lack of documentation, but the underlying concepts are deemed to be (fairly) complete.</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary>Therefore the specification can be put on a &quot;release candidate&quot; track (suggested by Julian) to invite specific comments with a view towards publishing as v1</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary>We keep the tentative date for this as OCT-15 to invite comments, after which we will resolve them and publish a v1.</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>In the meantime, we put a freeze on making major changes (large additions avoided, minor corrections are okay).</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>Volunteers for assisting with the documentation are needed and are invited to select what best suits their capabilities and interests</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>For documentation, harsh is updating the primer - <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/primer/,">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>primer/,</a> which contains notes on what sections and diagrams need changes and updating</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>Similar changes are to be made to the specification i.e. adding textual descriptions to each section for introducing the concepts and structures.</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary>A list of use-cases is proposed to be created and added to show completeness of considerations that went into creating the DPV concepts. harsh has a proposal to automate this by creating a page for listing them - <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/use-cases/">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>use-cases/</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=summary>Similarly, examples can be listed as proposed here - <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/examples/">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>examples/</a></p>
<p id=x029 class=summary>A list of things that volunteers can help with is available here - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>issues</a></p>
<p id=x030 class=summary>In addition to these, DPVCG has also planned to provide guides (explanation on DPV's concepts) for risk management, DPIA, ROPA, and consent - that provide an overview on what concepts within DPV are needed for each application</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary>In addition, and at a later date, some 'tutorials' that explain in a step-by-step manner how to implement DPV within some use-case would also provide helpful for adoption.</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary>Volunteers who want to implement specific things, e.g. write a section on technical measures - should let the group know of their interest so as to co-ordinate work. They are free to write and share it in whatever format they prefer (e.g. plain text, .docx, Google Docs).</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Rights</h3>
<p id=x034 class=summary>DPV has the notion of Right and DataSubjectRight, with GDPR specific ones in DPV-GDPR. The group has previously discussed that these should be expanded to provide practical concepts necessary for exercising the rights and representing the process and their responses.</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary>Taking the example of GDPR's SAR and Data Portability (and other rights) the group agrees that it would be better to have DPV provide a basic notion of rights exercise (e.g. property <code>hasRightsExercise</code>), with the additional concepts (which are detailed and several) to be provided in the rights extension.</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary>DPV-GDPR then implements this extension for the specific requirements of its rights, i.e. SAR and Data Portability and others.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
