<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 27 SEP 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>27 SEP 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/3228df35-afc8-4125-be1d-219c5cfd3aff/20230927T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/14-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg, harsh, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>paul</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DGA at SEMANTiCS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">ISO 27560</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">Withdrawing Consent</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Consent State as Events</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Consent Location</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Latest Consent State</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Efficiency of Implementations</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">Non-personal data in scope</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Repo restructuring</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">RDFS/SKOS default serialisation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-09-27">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-09-27</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DGA at SEMANTiCS</h3>
<p id=x012 class=summary>Beatriz presented work involving DPV's DGA extension at SEMANTiCS. The article is available at <a href="https://doi.org/10.3233/SSW230015">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.3233/<wbr>SSW230015</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>ISO 27560</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>work in progress is here - <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/guides/consent-27560,">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>guides/<wbr>consent-27560,</a> planning to finish the draft and share for review. Following this, we will also look at ISO 29184.</p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/90">Issue 90</a></strong> Provide guidance for implementing ISO/IEC 27560 Consent Records using DPV (coolharsh55) documentation, use-case, application</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Work can be reviewed while it is being written at this stage. Document includes guidance on use of DPV fields and examples for each field. In the interest of publishing this sooner, sections regarding considerations (privacy, security) will be removed and introduced later.</p>
<h4 id=t03>Withdrawing Consent</h4>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115">Issue 115</a></strong> Add ObtainingConsent and WithdrawingConsent as Org measures (coolharsh55) application, concepts, review</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>27560 requires information on how consent can be withdrawn. Currently in DPV we do not have the ability to express how consent can be withdrawn without it being specifically a right. We do have GDPR Art-7 right to withdraw consent, but that is specific to GDPR. Proposal to add two concepts as <code>OrganisationalMeasure</code> - <code>ObtainConsent</code> and <code>WithdrawConsent</code> to indicate how consent can be obtained and withdrawn without it being specifically a legal basis or a right. </p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>Proposal accepted.</p>
<h4 id=t04>Consent State as Events</h4>
<p id=x022 class=summary>27560 requires information on consent events. In DPV, we have Consent States (e.g. given). Proposal to use these as events which would enable representing information on when they were given, how, etc. - and stored in the 27560 record.</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>Proposal accepted.</p>
<h4 id=t05>Consent Location</h4>
<p id=x025 class=summary>Question raised regarding how to express the location or medium or modality of consent. Solution is to use the existing DPV properties e.g. <code>hasLocation</code> to indicate the location of consent, <code>isIndicatedBy</code> to express who gave the consent.</p>
<h4 id=t06>Latest Consent State</h4>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114">Issue 114</a></strong>  In 27560-records, how to identify the latest consent state? #114 (coolharsh55) application, concepts, question, review</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary>Question on how to point to the latest consent event or state i.e. how to quickly know whether consent has been given or not without requiring interpretation of the entire record. Various designs for the expression of consent events discussed, and how they point to the latest state. Of these, <a href="https://github.com/w3c/Option/issues/3">Option#3</a> was chosen which requires each event to have an ID and to point to this ID as the latest event using <code>dpv:hasConsentStatus</code>.</p>
<h4 id=t07>Efficiency of Implementations</h4>
<p id=x030 class=summary>This is an implementation detail, which means the use-case is free to choose how they want to store the information and organise it in a way which makes it efficient and suitable for their specific uses and technologies. The intention of the 27560 and DPV guidance is to state that it must be possible to pull out information from that system and express it in the specified form. If that is possible, then the implementation is in conformance, otherwise it is not.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Non-personal data in scope</h3>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (by coolharsh55) [scope] [concepts] [question]</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>The proposal to include non-personal data within DPV is accepted following no objections, affirmations in meetings, and no other engagements.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Repo restructuring</h3>
<p id=x035 class=summary>The proposal to restructure the repo to organise it according to the stated structure has been accepted following no objections, affirmations in meetings, and no other engagements.</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">Issue 107</a></strong> Restructure repo layout (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [question]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>RDFS/SKOS default serialisation</h3>
<p id=x038 class=summary>See email - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Sep/0024.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Sep/<wbr>0024.html</a></p>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/113">Issue 113</a></strong> Make RDFS+SKOS the default serialisation, remove 'DPV/SKOS' concepts (by coolharsh55) [adoption] [documentation] [scope] [review]</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary>No objections or further comments in discussion.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x042 class=summary>We will decide whether to meet next week based on developments in the mailing list and GitHub - IF there are items, the regular meeting will happen on WED OCT-04 15:00 WEST <em> 16:00 CEST. Harsh will be absent at this meeting. If there are no further developments and no meeting is needed next week, then we will meet again in 2 weeks on WED OCT-11 15:00 WEST </em> 16:00 CEST. Agenda is AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
