<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG &ndash; 23 July 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG</h1>
<h2>23 July 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/07/23-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd><details><summary>!,</summary> ?, Axel, Axel Polleres, Bert, Bert Bos, Bos, Eva, Eva Schlehahn, Hamed, Harshvardhan, Harshvardhan J. Pandit, Iliana, Iliana Petrova, J., Markevich, Michael, Michael Markevich, Milosevic, Pandit, Petrova, Polleres, Ramisa, Ramisa Hamed, RodrÃ­guez-Doncel, Schlehahn, Simon, Simon Steyskal, Steyskal, Uros, Uros Milosevic, VÃ­ctor, VÃ­ctor RodrÃ­guez-Doncel</details></dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Axel</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>simonstey</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">introduction</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">introductions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">workshop recap</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">next steps</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> I would rather not doing. It is 01.10 in Melbourne and I am too tired, I would make many mistakes</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>introduction</h3>
<p id=x006 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> agenda is in the email I sent<br>
<span id=x007>… please go on the website of the cg, there you find links to additional tools</span></p>
<p id=x009 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> at the bottom you find the links<br>
<span id=x010>… using IRC is quite handy to use for meetings</span></p>
<p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> IRC server is irc.w3.org</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> you don't need a dedicated IRC client, just use irc.w3.org<br>
<span id=x014>… we also use wiki</span></p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Wiki link: <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Main_Page">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Main_Page</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> you can log in with your w3c credentials<br>
<span id=x019>… there's also an issue tracker with irc integration, we can use</span><br>
<span id=x020>… we have a public mailing list, as well as few others</span></p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> simonstey: webex credentials sent on public mailinglist may be a security issue for bots.</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> bert: have to think about what we do for a regular webex call.</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> for those who are new to the w3c infrastructure, just ask</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> if we produce documents on top of just the wiki, I would suggest we do that on github</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> proposed: use github for versioning documents?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;UrosMilosevic&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1 use Github</p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> in w3c space?</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> w3c space is technically possible, but usually it's for WGs only</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>victor:</cite> wiki is easier to comprehend/use</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert clarify which github space we can use W3C's github space or if we need something else</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> I can ask if we can have a place at w3c's github</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>introductions</h3>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert clarify which github space we can use W3C's github space or if we need something else</p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: data field(s) missing from result.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> Vienna University of Economics &amp; Business, co-chaired SPARQL WG in the past, also part of an EU project called SPECIAL</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +?</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s04"><cite>UrosMilosevic:</cite> Semantic Technology Architect at TenForce, Belgium service provider<br>
<span id=x049>… also involved in the SPECIAL project</span></p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s03"><cite>victor:</cite> works for UPM, research visit @ melbourne, was part of ODRL WG, running european project on legal informatics</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> PhD @ Trinity, GDPR compliance from the angle of provenance</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Simonstey: also Vienna university &amp; Business, PhD student, involved in SHACL and ORDL WGs, working also in JSON-LD wg, also working at Siemens Austria</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s06"><cite>Ramisa:</cite> PhD @ trinity, privacy preserving personalization, also participated in privacy workshop</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> working on several w3c working groups in the past, also involved in the SPECIAL project</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s07"><cite>Eva:</cite> legal expert working on data protection related research projects<br>
<span id=x062>… advising on how to build software that is compliant with GDPR</span></p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> if you log into the wiki</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/</a></p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/User:Apollere2">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>User:Apollere2</a></p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> it's asking you for a login, and there you can add some personal information</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> all to edit their user profile on wiki</p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'all'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="http://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> please everybody add some personal information about yourself<br>
<span id=x071>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/User:Apollere2">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>User:Apollere2</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>workshop recap</h3>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> I was also not there in person</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/vocabws/report.html">Report of the workshop on Data Privacy Controls and Vocabularies</a></p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> workshop organized by SPECIAL project and w3c in April<br>
<span id=x087>… what technologies exist for privacy</span><br>
<span id=x088>… see what needs to be standardized and what not</span><br>
<span id=x089>… determine priorities for next steps</span><br>
<span id=x090>… first session was about things like how to express trust/access rights; identifiers; ODRL</span><br>
<span id=x091>… another session was about use cases in industry</span><br>
<span id=x092>… last session was about academic research</span><br>
<span id=x093>… modelling time, what about policies that change over time</span><br>
<span id=x094>… scientific datasets</span><br>
<span id=x095>… risks of collecting/combining/linking data</span><br>
<span id=x096>… we came up with 8 particular tasks</span><br>
<span id=x097>… ranked according to priority</span></p>
<p id=x098 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> GDPR terms...should also be part of a vocabulary,</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> number 1 point was defining a privacy vocabulary</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> taxonomy of purposes, taxonomy of perosnal data, log data, linkage</p>
<p id=x101 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> human behaviour.</p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s02"><cite>Bert:</cite> Taxonomy of regulatory privacy terms (including all GDPR terms). Taxonomy for personal data. Taxonomy of purposes. Taxonomy of disclosure. Metadata related to the details of anonymisation. Log vocabulary. Taxonomy of linkage operations. Taxonomies of human behavior.</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> (webEx is having network problems, trying to re-connect)</p>
<p id=x106 class="phone s08"><cite>michael_markevich:</cite> doing security &amp; privacy @ Opera software<br>
<span id=x107>… just became AC rep for Opera</span><br>
<span id=x108>… as we deal with privacy at large scale, we are def. interested in contributing to this cg</span></p>
<p id=x116 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> what we want as deliverables of that CG, is at least a list of requirements<br>
<span id=x117>… and use cases for such vocabularies</span><br>
<span id=x118>… the agenda we have drafted so far, can be found on the starting page of the cg</span><br>
<span id=x119>… we are still in the consolidating phase of the group</span><br>
<span id=x120>… we wanted to &quot;officially&quot; start in August at the mydata conference</span><br>
<span id=x121>… were we'll have our first f2f meeting, there might be a possibility for another f2f meeting in october</span><br>
<span id=x122>… at mydata there's a session on (??)</span><br>
<span id=x123>… anyone planning to join those conferences?</span></p>
<p id=x124 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> maybe</p>
<p id=x125 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: anybody planning to join Mydata?</p>
<p id=x126 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ... or BDVA?</p>
<p id=x129 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we can start with using the wiki to collect some starting points<br>
<span id=x130>… any comments welcome</span></p>
<p id=x132 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> if you have certain use cases, please create a wiki page for those and send a link to the list</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Create section for Use-cases on Wiki ?</p>
<p id=x135 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> anybody volunteering for creating a draft structure for use cases we can use?<br>
<span id=x136>… for vocabularies, maybe victor you could start adding some bits and pieces for ODRL?</span></p>
<p id=x137 class="phone s03"><cite>victor:</cite> yes!</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> draft a page afor ORDL</p>
<p id=x139 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'draft'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="http://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x140 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> GDPRtEXT vocabulary</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to draft a page about GDPRtext</p>
<p id=x142 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: data field(s) missing from result.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Michael to draft something about Opera use case(s)</p>
<p id=x144 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'Michael' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., mmarkevich, mpetyx).</p>
<p id=x145 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> There was a very old list of vocabularies</p>
<p id=x146 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/Policy/pling/wiki/PolicyLangReview">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>Policy/<wbr>pling/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>PolicyLangReview</a></p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s03"><cite>victor:</cite> very very old review of policy languages that might be of interest</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert to add some overview of SPECIAL use case(s)</p>
<p id=x149 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: data field(s) missing from result.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x150 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> (very very old = 10 years)</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to add some more starting point vocabulary stubs</p>
<p id=x152 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ACTION: data field(s) missing from result.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=x153 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> if you work on some project, please tell us about potentially relevant use cases</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>next steps</h3>
<p id=x155 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> (sorry for not being able to say anthing atm, it seems WebEx does not like my PC today :( )</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> next time we want to discuss our inputs</p>
<p id=x157 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> (on-and-off connection all the time)</p>
<p id=x158 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> (neutral)</p>
<p id=x160 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> poll for regular call slot sounds good</p>
<p id=x161 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> Yes a poll would be great</p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we have to think about how to get more people on board<br>
<span id=x165>… more people from industry would be nice, please advertise!</span></p>
<p id=x166 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x167 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x168 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> next call in two weeks?</p>
<p id=x169 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +!</p>
<p id=x170 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we should have at least one more call before mydata</p>
<p id=x171 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x172 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x173 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x176 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> in 2 weeks?<br>
<span id=x177>… +1</span><br>
<span id=x178>… 6.8 16:00 CEST?</span></p>
<p id=x179 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> proposed: next call 6 august 16:00 CEST</p>
<p id=x180 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x181 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x182 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x183 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> 6th is holiday in Ireland</p>
<p id=x184 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x185 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x186 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1 7 TUE</p>
<p id=x187 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Would Tuesday 7 August 16:00 work better?</p>
<p id=x188 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> what about tuesday then?</p>
<p id=x189 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> next call Tuesday 7 August 16:00  CEST</p>
<p id=x191 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Announce on email list?</p>
<p id=x192 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> thanks! have a nice day!</p>
<p id=x193 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> any further questions?</p>
<p id=x194 class="phone s01"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> please announce your contributions to the wiki to the mailing list</p>
<p id=x195 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> Thanks.</p>
<p id=x196 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Thanks.</p>
<p id=x197 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> Noted the date/time for the next call and hoping that WebEx works then</p>
<p id=x200 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> rrsagent make minutes public</p>
<p id=x204 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> thanks!</p>
<p id=x205 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Bert, I guess the ra minutes need a while to become visible?</p>
<p id=x206 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Yes, can take a minute or so.</p>
<p id=x207 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_S__ULD_&gt;</cite> thanks everyone, bye</p>
<p id=x212 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> thanks!@</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Bert clarify which github space we can use W3C's github space or if we need something else</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Bert clarify which github space we can use W3C's github space or if we need something else</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">all to edit their user profile on wiki</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">draft a page afor ORDL</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">harsh to draft a page about GDPRtext</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Michael to draft something about Opera use case(s)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Bert to add some overview of SPECIAL use case(s)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Axel to add some more starting point vocabulary stubs</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">next call Tuesday 7 August 16:00  CEST</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
