<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 17 September 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>17 September 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Sep/0021.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/09/17-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>axel, bud, fajar, harsh, markLizar</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>axelpolleres</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Open Actions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> dialing in a sec</p>
<p id=x005 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> seems I am having connection issues with Webex here</p>
<p id=x007 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes from last time <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/09/03-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>09/<wbr>03-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x009 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> we're back to the bi-weekly schedule for calls, and will be working towards collecting use-cases and examples</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve minutes from last time <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/09/03-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>09/<wbr>03-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Open Actions</h3>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> Action-11 assigned to Simon, (we) did contact by email, but we did not receive a reply as of yet. We should change the person responsible to myself.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-36 Should we keep it open? We were looking into using one of the use-cases from SPECIAL for DPV</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-36</p>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-36.</p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Action-130 continued</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>Bud:</cite> I talked with Eva, and we discussed that the Proximus was not suitable or readily adoptable for DPV. We discussed, but we don't have a (formal) document yet.<br>
<span id=x025>… discussing ACTION-87</span></p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> MarkL: we should have a way to use other sector codes, combine sector codes.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> for GICS, we need something similar as NACE, with URIs that we can plug and use with DPV</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-87: would need MarkL to make a concrete proposal to mint URIs for GICS similar to NACE.</p>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-87 Make a proposal alternatively use gics instead of nace..</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkLL&gt;</cite> time out?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-114 was also something similar to ACTION-87</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> we can close ACTION-114 and follow-up on ACTION-87 instead</p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-114</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-114.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-123 and ACTION-124 advertise at MyData by Elmar<br>
<span id=x037>… Elmar sent an email about it earlier: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Sep/0020.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Sep/<wbr>0020.html</a></span></p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-125 advertising at SEMANTiCS by Fajar and Harsh - action can be marked complete</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-125: report about semantics in an email by harsh...</p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-125 Advertise at semantics..</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> email update regarding SEMANTiCS: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Sep/0015.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Sep/<wbr>0015.html</a><br>
<span id=x043>… ACTION-125: report for SEMANTiCS <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Sep/0015.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Sep/<wbr>0015.html</a></span></p>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-125 Advertise at semantics..</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-125</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-125.</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-126 continued</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-127 ask simon about comments on spec; will ask Simon to mail to the list regarding this</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> (to Fajar) the comments about class vs properties was one of the things in comments?</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fRtIy1Cmh6RpWrCB7Cs6XZn504pJqIMAeJ2BhoZsdvs/edit#gid=0">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1fRtIy1Cmh6RpWrCB7Cs6XZn504pJqIMAeJ2BhoZsdvs/<wbr>edit#gid=0</a></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> ACTION-128: spreadsheet collecting comments and actions <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fRtIy1Cmh6RpWrCB7Cs6XZn504pJqIMAeJ2BhoZsdvs/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1fRtIy1Cmh6RpWrCB7Cs6XZn504pJqIMAeJ2BhoZsdvs/</a></p>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-128 Will try to recollect all the inputs and (not-)addressed issues in the spec..</p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> 2 separate issues: a) how to identify categories that are PII, b) how to include complementary classes from the Blinding Identity Taxonomy (BIT)</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>harsh:</cite> how do we proceed in terms of including the terms? do we have a policy for inclusion of terms from external vocabularies and sources?</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> in the DPV spec, we have the template/layout for suggesting terms, we can use that</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> suggestions should include note on how they relate to the existing state of DPV e.g. whether extend existing or overlaps or have alternate concepts</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to contact Jan Lindquis and inform them about the process how to suggest terms, i.e. ask them for a coherent proposal to extend our voacbulary to include their terms and let us know which ones are missing or where are the overlaps.</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-131 - Contact jan lindquis and inform them about the process how to suggest terms, i.e. ask them for a coherent proposal to extend our voacbulary to include their terms and let us know which ones are missing or where are the overlaps. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-09-24].</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Can you still hear me?</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I think we passed the hour...</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> Cannot hear Axel</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... we should check timeline, but you can't hear me</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I can hear you, let's defer the timeline to next call</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> in 2 weeks, ok?</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> then that's an action on me, continued....</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> Next telco 1 OCT 16:00 CET</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... should hopefully be derivable from the last minutes</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> thanks all!</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adjourned.</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s02"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> v</p>
<p id=x082 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> now it works <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/09/17-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>09/<wbr>17-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">harsh to contact Jan Lindquis and inform them about the process how to suggest terms, i.e. ask them for a coherent proposal to extend our voacbulary to include their terms and let us know which ones are missing or where are the overlaps.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve minutes from last time https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>09/<wbr>03-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
