<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 16 October 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>16 October 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Oct/0015.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/10/16-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Rigo, Sabrina</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>axel</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, rigo</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">definitions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">5) Plan next meeting(s) and revisit timeline, particularly: F2F in Nov or Dec (around EBDVF or ICT18, both in Vienna)</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Introduction, New members (Niklas).</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s02"><cite>Niklas:</cite> Masters student at WU working on Privacy. Helping with existing categorisation and taxonomies (Axel).</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Everyone who is new should create a web page with some details of their profile on the wiki.</p>
<p id=x014 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve last meeting minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/09/18-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>09/<wbr>18-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> discussing minutes from last meeting (the previous telecall was cancelled,) so the last meeting was 18 September.</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Any objections, questions?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> No objections</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve last meeting minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/09/18-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>09/<wbr>18-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Going through the action items. Currently, many items open (most for myself and Bert)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></h3>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-6 continued</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> For Opera use-case, do we have Michael here?<br>
<span id=x026>… &lt;Michael not present&gt;</span></p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-7 continued</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Bert for discussion on SPECIAL use-cases (Bert N/A today)</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Editing Action 14</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> It's easier to use the bot to interact with the Actions</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> it</p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite>  's easier to use the web to edit actions</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action 17 - propose to close this action</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> it would be useful to know whether the template for the use-cases would be useful, feedback on changes would be useful</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We can put this on the agenda for the next meeting</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> If anyone notices anything odd/wrong or to improve the template, we should discuss this</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We are looking for categories of data, processing, etc. This should be reflected in the use-case, which it currently is not.</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies</a></p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ... discuss templates next time, my feeling is that the categories we discussed now are better reflected in the template.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Maybe we can add a new option for looking at the required terms/concepts in the templates</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> I can help with the templates</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> eva to look over the use cases template to reflect better what we agreed upon as requirements/priorities last time.</p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-26 - Look over the use cases template to reflect better what we agreed upon as requirements/priorities last time. [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2018-10-23].</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-14 with reference to new action-26</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-14</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-14.</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-17</p>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-17.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Accidentally closed Action 14 instead of Action 17. Re-opening Action 14.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-14 reopened.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action 18 for MyData use-cases</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s05"><cite>Stefano:</cite> I went through the high-level use-cases and added them to the use-cases list</p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> 2 use cases added from myData added</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-18</p>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-18.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action 19 contact digi.me is continued</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-20 and ACTION-21 have been closed by Eva...</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Action 20 (added to wiki) and 21 (talk to Eva regarding BDVA) were closed before call.</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions</a></p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to put discussion on new use cases on the agenda</p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-27 - Put discussion on new use cases on the agenda [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-10-23].</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> The above link shows all actions of the group, regardless of being closed or open</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action 23 Talking with Bert about refining scope/schedule of group. Proposed to postpone until F2F meeting.</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Where will it be? I will be there.</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Propose to keep the action open and talk about it at F2F in London</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: talk about a timeline and milestones in London.</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Action 24 This is a mixture of the new action for Eva. This could be left open, to specify that all use-cases reflect the requirements, regarding concepts.<br>
<span id=x069>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Taxonomy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Taxonomy</a></span></p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-25</p>
<p id=x071 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-25.</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Definitions from terms appear to have been instantiated<br>
<span id=x074>… These are from the email (from Niklas) containing defintions from GDPR</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>definitions</h3>
<p id=x076 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Question - how far these definitions are sufficient for us? Are the definitions from GDPR sufficient? There was some discussion on the definition of consent in the mails.</p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> How close should stick to the GDPR definitions? We should be careful if we deviate from the GDPR too much. Terms such as from USA, that sound similar, have different scopes in terms of legal definitions.</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> consent = agreement with a [data controller] to specific [processing] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose]</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> We have to think this for the goal we want to achieve. It's of no use if we re-define a legal definition. The legal definitions are what the courts will use. Such as what informed consent means. And if our definition doesn't contain that, then we need to transform the court decision to re-use the term. The taxonomy itself should use the data-controller.</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> For taxonomy, we have to term Data Controller, and then we can dissect or find out if the term is made out of several additional requirements. For me, it is a second step. Because then, in law, you can dive into infinite refining of definitions. If we try to drill down, we can do that endlessly, and we end up in loops.</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I agree with Rigo, we need to be clear with what the taxonomy is supposed to do</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> My point is that, for e.g. consent needs refinement. The current definition is only a definition.</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> If we want to make this useful, we need to make machine testable points. E.g. if we have consent, and it has click okay button. Legal definitions do not have machine interpretations.</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Technology can help in this, but cannot help for cases such as user has not responded</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> consent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> It should help us for data handling and not in explaining what consent is. Taxonomy should reduce legal compexcity.</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> You could add a label for valid/invalid consent. IF someone gives consent, and later it is decided to be invalid by courts, technology can label it as such</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s02"><cite>Niklas:</cite> The concept of validity and invalidity is already present in the definition</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s05"><cite>Stefano:</cite> If the discussion is on the definition of consent, or we are also discussing what should be in the consent. The components of consent would also be useful.</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s05"><cite>Stefano:</cite> If the consent does not have purpose etc. then it would not be very useful</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> rigo: if we fully define what consent is, we will hit the wall</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> If we define what consent is, we will hit the wall at some point in time, because it will get very complex, and it does not serve the purpose of the algorithms that will use the taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ... but we would need the components in a taxonomy</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> I would like to see the related concepts/things about consent in the taxonomy</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> In linked data, with the open world assumption, the NOT operator does not work very well.<br>
<span id=x105>… Question to technicians: if something is close to the requirements, but does not trigger the consent (yes) variable, we can have the unset operator.</span><br>
<span id=x106>… Maybe we need something like invalid consent and have statements on that.</span></p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> We shouldn't formulate things that should be in, related to, consent but have them in the taxonomy</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> For other approaches after/similar to GDPR, they can reuse this work</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> &lt;/chairhat&gt;</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> Rigo: because they consider it good enough</p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We have taxonomy as a container</p>
<p id=x114 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> Any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject’s wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her.</p>
<p id=x115 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> consent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]</p>
<p id=x116 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> [4:28pm]</p>
<p id=x118 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Consent is just an object which has the attributes (see text above)</p>
<p id=x119 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We did not discuss which kind of actions are associated with consent, but we should include those. Such as clicking a button, for how consent is given.</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We want to define taxonomies for this.</p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> &lt;chairhat&gt;</p>
<p id=x127 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> We are thinking in the same direction. Stefano said he wants to see what things consent entails. Axel has mentioned elements of consent.</p>
<p id=x129 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> We should also label statuses of consent - pending, given, denied</p>
<p id=x130 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> eva wants properties of consent</p>
<p id=x131 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> valid, invalid, given, pending</p>
<p id=x132 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> My slides at DPVCG workshop in Vienna had suggestions on this. This could be an action point for what are the elements for consent we need to define for the taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x133 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> We can learn from each other (different domains) to express this</p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Formulate this as an issue instead of an Action. (Rigo agrees)</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> What are the elements of consent? starting from &quot;onsent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]&quot;</p>
<p id=x136 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-4 - What are the elements of consent? starting from &quot;onsent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]&quot;.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/4/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>4/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x138 class="phone s02"><cite>Niklas:</cite> The data structure should also be present in the general structure</p>
<p id=x145 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Data subject, not data subject<br>
<span id=x146>… ( Axel tries regex replace )</span><br>
<span id=x147>… Proposal: have comptenency questions for properties/answer related to consent, and the answer would be what we would describe in taxonomy</span></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to propose competence questions on what consent comprises</p>
<p id=x149 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-28 - Propose competence questions on what consent comprises [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2018-10-23].</p>
<p id=x151 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> These can be formulated as points or questions, and we can transform them between each other using machines/automation</p>
<p id=x152 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> This discussion exemplifies other things, we have conditions before 'A' is met, and the systematic of the GDPR says, we need a processor, and data subject, and we need the 'condition' that makes processing legal - which is what consent is under.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> axel to put review of issues list and starting time on the agenda template (note to self)<br>
<span id=x154>… certain processing can be permitted or prohibited by definition.</span></p>
<p id=x155 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-29 - Put review of issues list and starting time on the agenda template (note to self) [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-10-23].</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> We need an annotation - legal (question mark) for legal processing, and we can have legal reasons such as necessity, security, and we can import all public law, such as contract law, which goes under consent, There is legitimate interest.</p>
<p id=x157 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> What we are doing now with consent, we have do with the others</p>
<p id=x158 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> And the taxonomy will go down in to sub-terms. And these would things that constitute informed-ness in consent.</p>
<p id=x159 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> What we can do here with consent would be a template for how we treat the other consents</p>
<p id=x160 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Data Controller, Data Subject, Legal Processing are the top terms. (Eva agrees)</p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> What is Legal Processing</p>
<p id=x162 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> It is the opposite of illegal processing</p>
<p id=x163 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We need processing categories, and then we decide if there are consent based or not?</p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> No, there are more basis for legal processing</p>
<p id=x166 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> So we need overall constraints.</p>
<p id=x167 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> This is why defining consent as a permission can be tricky. Because in GDPR there are more permissions than consent.</p>
<p id=x168 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Consent is one of several permissions.</p>
<p id=x169 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> eva: Some entity may be permitted by law for certain processing.</p>
<p id=x173 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> eva: lynx is also doing a taxonomy</p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> LYNX has data controller as the accounting manager of the company. This does not meet the GDPR requirements.</p>
<p id=x175 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ... their glossary seems to be not compliant with GDPR</p>
<p id=x176 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Legal basis for processing mentioned in GDPR: Contract with Data Subject, Exempted by National Law, Employment Law, Given Consent, Historic, Statistical, or Scientific Purposes, Legal claims, Legal obligation, Legitimate Interest, Made public by Data Subject, Medical, Diagnostic, or Treatement, Not for Profit Org. Public Interest, Purpose of New Processing, Vital Interest</p>
<p id=x177 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> (response to Eva) They mean the person who is responsible</p>
<p id=x178 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> It can be different based on organisation</p>
<p id=x179 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> A Data Controller is a natural/legal person</p>
<p id=x181 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We should try to do this in a sparse manner. Niklas' article to analyse terms and conditions shows that they are not understandable. Not sure whether we need to cover those.</p>
<p id=x182 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Don't do this. They are hard.</p>
<p id=x183 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> They have very complicated, nested expressions ranging from very broad to very specific. Not sure whether we want to cover such T&amp;C.</p>
<p id=x184 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> It is very very difficult to design a tree from the branches. It's much easier to design from the roots. (Axel agrees)</p>
<p id=x185 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Imagine this like a mindmap, where the relation is clear to a human but not to a machine. The challenge to technicians is to know what are the things that trigger whether a processing is permitted. This is a modelling challenge</p>
<p id=x186 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> &quot;rigo: where can we use conditions, where permissions, where obligations?&quot; sounds to me like mapping to ODRL</p>
<p id=x187 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> What are the points that combined define consent as a legal basis? What do we have as permissions / logic operators ?</p>
<p id=x188 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Ideas about labelling things beyond permissions</p>
<p id=x189 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> &quot;The challenge to technicians is to know what are the things that trigger whether a processing is permitted&quot; ... reminds me of Business process modelling</p>
<p id=x190 class="phone s04"><cite>Rigo:</cite> We can label it as ODRL, as in GDPR we have the paradigm where everything is prohibited until we have a permission</p>
<p id=x191 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Due to time, postpone the discussion to mailing list / next meeting</p>
<p id=x192 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> continue Definitions discusion on the mailinglist.</p>
<p id=x193 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> then everything turns into a permission, which may be difficult for the machines</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>5) Plan next meeting(s) and revisit timeline, particularly: F2F in Nov or Dec (around EBDVF or ICT18, both in Vienna)</h3>
<p id=x195 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> F2F in Vienna. Option 1: Meet around or during EDF (European Data Value Forum) in November or ICT in December.</p>
<p id=x196 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> eva: will be at both</p>
<p id=x197 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I will be at both</p>
<p id=x198 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> I will not very likely</p>
<p id=x199 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Let us have a Vote.</p>
<p id=x200 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Option A: 12-14 Nov</p>
<p id=x201 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> Where is ICT 2018?</p>
<p id=x202 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Option B: 15 November</p>
<p id=x203 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> Vienna</p>
<p id=x204 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Option C: 5 December</p>
<p id=x205 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> 15 Nov does not suit due to lectures</p>
<p id=x206 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Option D: 3 December</p>
<p id=x207 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> Axel is lecturing also</p>
<p id=x208 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> +1 Option C &amp; Option D</p>
<p id=x209 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> D,C</p>
<p id=x210 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> I favor options A, C or D</p>
<p id=x211 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We should also formally ask for preferences over the mailing list</p>
<p id=x212 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Niklas: A,B,C,D</p>
<p id=x213 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> +1 Option C</p>
<p id=x214 class=irc><cite>&lt;stefano&gt;</cite> I cannot make it</p>
<p id=x215 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> B, C, D</p>
<p id=x216 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Option C and Option D has most votes (6 votes)</p>
<p id=x217 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> We aready have an agenda</p>
<p id=x218 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> it depends on that</p>
<p id=x220 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Next call on 6th November in Three weeks</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to send a doodle poll over the list for F2F</p>
<p id=x222 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-30 - Send a doodle poll over the list for f2f [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-10-23].</p>
<p id=x223 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> (query by Axel)</p>
<p id=x224 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> no objections</p>
<p id=x228 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Proposal - slot in SPECIAL meeting for update to the group, otherwise the regular call will be on 6th November.<br>
<span id=x229>… ( end of meeting )</span></p>
<p id=x230 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> next regular DPVCG call 6 Nov, maybe an extra short call on 30October, but not yet confirmed.</p>
<p id=x233 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> @rigo, will you prepare the final minutes please? I need to run, would appreciate!</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">eva to look over the use cases template to reflect better what we agreed upon as requirements/priorities last time.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to put discussion on new use cases on the agenda</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">harsh to propose competence questions on what consent comprises</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">axel to put review of issues list and starting time on the agenda template (note to self)<br>
… certain processing can be permitted or prohibited by definition.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Axel to send a doodle poll over the list for F2F</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve last meeting minutes https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>09/<wbr>18-dpvcg-minutes</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">What are the elements of consent? starting from &quot;onsent = agreement through an [affirmative action] at a specific [time] with a [data controller] to specific [processing] and [storage] of specific [data categories] for specific [purpose] and [duration]&quot;</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
