<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 16 JUL 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>16 JUL 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0f0fbb7f-df36-4325-b39b-60e0eac5c8b7/20240717T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2024/07/16-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, julianFlake, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Interpretation of Process</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Planning next release</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">workflow management</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">archiving DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">diagrams for v2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">low priority</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">medium priority</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">High priority</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-07-16">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-07-16</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Interpretation of Process</h3>
<p id=x011 class=summary> See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Jul/0006.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2024Jul/<wbr>0006.html</a></p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> the email is asking about interpretation of e.g. multiple purposes and multiple data categories occuring in the same process. Interpretation should be all purposes apply to all data categories. To indicate separation i.e. some purposes apply to some data categories, nested processes should be used for separation. E.g. if we want to model a process X which specifies PurposeA applies to Data1, PurposeB applies to Data1 and Data 2, then we will<br>
<span id=x014>… have process X with nested process X1 for PurposeA and Data1, and X2 for PurposeB and Data1 and Data2.</span></p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> it would be better to have a property to associate the concepts e.g. purpose, personal data and so on</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we shouldn't have additional properties as we would have to create too many of them e.g. for legal basis and processing</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> suggestion is to use nested processes to create units who meaning is based on combination of concepts present in the process</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> so we would have subprocesses where a process has another process within itself where the subprocesses are processes in their own context</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> this was discussed earlier at some point as well?</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, we discussed this and this is the interpretation we have in the examples but it isn't explicitly spelled out</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> discussed - agreed, and add note to the specification explaining this interpretation of processes</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Planning next release</h3>
<p id=x023 class=summary> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/5">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>5</a> for list of issues</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> using github projects to discuss issues <a href="https://github.com/users/coolharsh55/projects/4/">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>users/<wbr>coolharsh55/<wbr>projects/<wbr>4/</a></p>
<h4 id=t03>workflow management</h4>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/148">#148</a></p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/148">CLOSED Issue 148 switch to Gitflow workflow for repo management (by coolharsh55) [help-wanted] [code] [review]</a></p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> the workflow going ahead will be based on gitflow where we have a main branch representing the stable work, a dev branch, and then feature branches</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we put things on the main branch after they have been agreed or approved, and we use dev branch to show and discuss things while they are in development, and for individual or separate works we use feature branch e.g. diagrams by julian</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we have 2.1-dev as the current development release based on <a href="https://semver.org/">https://<wbr>semver.org/</a> best practices which suggest using a version number instead of just the label dev. We can change the development version number later if desired e.g. 3.0 for a major change.</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> we agreed on this workflow, and closed the issue</p>
<h4 id=t04>archiving DPV</h4>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/45">#45</a></p>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/45">CLOSED Issue 45 Preserving older versions of DPV and other resources (by coolharsh55) [release]</a></p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we have currently dpv deposited in LOV though waiting for extensions to be accepted, and then we have it on Zenodo. Anywhere else to deposit it?</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary> no venues identified, issue marked as completed</p>
<h4 id=t05>diagrams for v2</h4>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> no further updates - all diagrams are present, some minor diagrams being tested out but nothing pending for the specs</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> then we can mark this as done as the issue was about updating existing diagrams for v2 - we can continue working on more diagrams in general<br>
<span id=x041>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/166">#166</a></span></p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/166">CLOSED Issue 166 Update diagrams for v2 (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [docs] [review]</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> issue marked as completed</p>
<h4 id=t06>low priority</h4>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/171">#171</a></p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/171">Issue 171</a></strong> Provide consolidated list of legal basis, rights, and other relevant concepts for each jurisdiction (by coolharsh55) [rights] [todo] [legal]</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this was a suggestion from beatriz to provide all legal basis, rights, etc. from laws within a jurisdiction in one place - do we need this?</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> what would this mean in terms of implementation? sounds confusing</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> it would allow something like what we have on the legal page <a href="https://w3c.github.io/dpv/2.0/legal/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>2.0/<wbr>legal/</a> where we can see different laws and authorities across jurisdictions in one place - just for convenience as the concepts are still declared in their respective namespaces</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> would be useful - but not essential</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> marked as low priority</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/36">#36</a></p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/36">Issue 36</a></strong> Expressing preferred policies or templates (by csarven) [help-wanted] [question]</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this was the issue about associating a policy or indicating a preferred one - recent discussion there about interpretation of policies to identify preference / outcome.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> this is ongoing work in ODRL CG so we should wait for that work to be completed and then build / integrate on it.<br>
<span id=x057>… Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/36">#36</a> this is related to ongoing work in ODRL CG - therefore we will wait for that work and reuse / integrate it here</span></p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/36#issuecomment-2231238645">comment</a></p>
<p id=x059 class=summary> issue assigned to beatriz to follow up on</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/160">#160</a></p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/160">Issue 160</a></strong> Contributors should reference Agents, not a string literal list of authors (by jeswr) [todo] [docs] [code]</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is good practice but is not essential, though the amount of code change is substantial as both RDF generation and HTML generation code has to be changed<br>
<span id=x064>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/147">#147</a></span></p>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/147">Issue 147</a></strong> Create extension EU NIS2 (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [help-wanted] [eu-nis2]</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/137">#137</a></p>
<p id=x067 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/137">Issue 137</a></strong> Move code for document/minute generation to another branch (by coolharsh55) [code]</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this proposal (issue 137) is about moving the code folder from the repo main branch into a separate branch so the main branch only contains the outputs and people aren't looking at the csv we use as inputs - not essential<br>
<span id=x070>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">#82</a></span></p>
<p id=x071 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">Issue 82</a></strong> Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum) [help-wanted] [proposal] [AI]</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this was related to providing a way to indicate AI training should not happen on a website</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> would be relevant for ODRL work</p>
<p id=x074 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> we had the AI ODRL profile that could be relevant here</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> realistically, this would be best placed within schema.org - so we identify the concepts and relations and can make a proposal there<br>
<span id=x077>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/24">#24</a></span></p>
<p id=x078 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/24">Issue 24</a></strong> Programmatic generation of documentation diagrams (by coolharsh55) [todo] [docs] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> not trivial as diagrams need some control over what concepts are used to produce the diagrams<br>
<span id=x081>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/139">#139</a></span></p>
<p id=x082 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/139">Issue 139</a></strong> Provide a 404 page for DPV (by coolharsh55) [todo] [docs] [code] [good first issue]</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> trivial and easy to do - will do it at some point when I'm bored and have a bit of time<br>
<span id=x085>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">#26</a></span></p>
<p id=x086 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55) [proposal]</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is related to creating a new ISO extension representing mappings from DPV concepts to ISO terminology e.g. PII and PersonalData and so on.</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> also involves creating a vocabulary to represent standards and linking them to DPV concepts e.g. 27560 is for consent records</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> would be also helpful to represent specific standards and then use these e.g. indicate which are harmonised standards in the eu extension</p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> there is a standard associated with IDSA architecture that is being made an ISO standard</p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> think that is based on an older DIN / German standard - interested in that</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> its better to open a separate dedicated issue for that - as this issue is about the ISO extension and mapping of concepts<br>
<span id=x094>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/129">#129</a></span></p>
<p id=x095 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/129">Issue 129</a></strong> Move content from W3C wiki to Github wiki, and close W3C wiki (by coolharsh55) [scope] [WIP] [docs]</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> easy to do - will be done over time by anyone<br>
<span id=x098>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114">#114</a></span></p>
<p id=x099 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114">Issue 114</a></strong> In 27560-records, how to identify the latest consent state? (by coolharsh55) [guide]</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this had a bit of discussion but no conclusion - any solutions?</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> this is relevant to work here in Gent, can have a student who will work on this. Also spoke with OSLO folks who have consent vocabulary</p>
<p id=x102 class=summary> assigned to beatriz to follow up on</p>
<h4 id=t07>medium priority</h4>
<p id=x104 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/135">#135</a></p>
<p id=x105 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/135">Issue 135</a></strong> Add biometric categories to Personal Data extension (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [personal-data] [good first issue]</p>
<p id=x106 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this refers to adding more categories to PD - are there any in AI Act or in DPIA work?</p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> AI Act mentions some biometrics but no specific list is given</p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s05"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> nothing in DPIA analysis either</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> then we will keep this open to get the list of concepts and add them<br>
<span id=x111>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/138">#138</a></span></p>
<p id=x112 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/138">Issue 138</a></strong> Add CIA model to Tech/Org measures (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [dpv]</p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> CIA model refers to infosec where we have Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability. Having the tech/org measures specifically categorised to one or more of these categories would help select the correct concept.</p>
<p id=x114 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> data breaches are also categorised along the same concepts - so the cause can be expressed as a lack of some specific category measure</p>
<p id=x115 class=summary> accepted the work is relevant</p>
<p id=x116 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/138">#138</a> work has been accepted and will be started in next version</p>
<p id=x117 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/138#issuecomment-2231264788">comment</a></p>
<p id=x118 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/135">#135</a> identify what categories are present and add them to PD</p>
<p id=x119 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/135#issuecomment-2231265411">comment</a></p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114">#114</a> beatriz to follow up on this from local implementation</p>
<p id=x121 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114#issuecomment-2231266151">comment</a></p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94">#94</a></p>
<p id=x123 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94">Issue 94</a></strong> Represent Datasheets and Model Cards with DPV (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [AI]</p>
<p id=x124 class=summary> assigned to delaram</p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is about taking datasheets and model cards and seeing how to represent them using DPV</p>
<p id=x126 class="phone s06"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> what is the extent of this work? does it start from zero?</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> no, we had two EMILDAI students last year who did a mapping from GDPR to fields from these which can be used to which DPV concepts apply and which are needed. Then it will lead to a better version of datasheets and model cards.<br>
<span id=x129>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/43">#43</a></span></p>
<p id=x130 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/43">Issue 43</a></strong> Declaring additional axioms for DPV-OWL (by coolharsh55) [help-wanted] [owl]</p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> would be good to have some assertions e.g. properties are functional or transitive, with more complex assertions stating combinations for subclasses</p>
<p id=x132 class=summary> no takers so far</p>
<p id=x133 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/31">#31</a></p>
<p id=x134 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/31">Issue 31</a></strong> Mappings from DPV to other vocabularies (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x135 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for ODRL there is a separate issue, so for the other vocabularies what do we need to do?</p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> interested in PROV as that is relevant to work here</p>
<p id=x137 class=summary> assigned to beatriz</p>
<p id=x138 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> is gist actually used or useful as it is listed here?</p>
<p id=x139 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> it provides more details about organisations that is not present in DPV</p>
<p id=x141 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> an adopter requested it, so we added it to the list<br>
<span id=x142>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/75">#75</a></span></p>
<p id=x143 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/75">Issue 75</a></strong> Reuse/Refer to EUROVOC concepts for EU's fundamental rights (by coolharsh55) [rights] [WIP] [help-wanted] [eu-rights]</p>
<p id=x145 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is straightforward to do as it will require providing a link to the eurovoc concept<br>
<span id=x146>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">#89</a></span></p>
<p id=x147 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">Issue 89</a></strong> Multi-lingual labels and descriptions for concepts (by coolharsh55) [todo] [docs] [help-wanted] [code]</p>
<p id=x149 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this requires a bit of work, already started on this for v2 but stopped as we didn't have enough manual reviews - will have this for 2.1<br>
<span id=x150>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">#130</a></span></p>
<p id=x151 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">Issue 130</a></strong> Alignment with ODRL (by besteves4) [scope] [WIP] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x152 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> this is of interest to ODRL CG as well, aim to get this done in the next release</p>
<h4 id=t08>High priority</h4>
<p id=x154 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/123">#123</a></p>
<p id=x155 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/123">Issue 123</a></strong> Add concepts from ENISA SotA Tech/Org Measures  (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [help-wanted] [dpv] [eu-nis2] [good first issue]</p>
<p id=x157 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this includes measures mentioned in ENISA documents as well as the NIS2 work suggested by Jenni<br>
<span id=x158>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/110">#110</a></span></p>
<p id=x159 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/110">Issue 110</a></strong> Add concepts from ISO 22989:2022 AI Terminology (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [AI] [good first issue]</p>
<p id=x160 class=summary> assigned to delaram</p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">#111</a></p>
<p id=x162 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">Issue 111</a></strong> Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [dpv]</p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> some ongoing work here<br>
<span id=x165>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12">#12</a></span></p>
<p id=x166 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12">Issue 12</a></strong> Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used (by coolharsh55) [use-case] [example] [todo]</p>
<p id=x167 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> important that we have use-cases and examples as best practice ; we have some 70 examples at the moment but need a review to see whether any examples should be provided which aren't</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> use-cases are important to show how concepts are produced and where applications of DPV are envisioned ; see e.g. <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/NOTE-dcat-ucr-20190117/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>2019/<wbr>NOTE-dcat-ucr-20190117/</a><br>
<span id=x170>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/48">#48</a></span></p>
<p id=x171 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/48">Issue 48</a></strong> Specify association between law, authority, and jurisdiction in documentation of respective concepts (by coolharsh55) [legal] [fix-this]</p>
<p id=x172 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is an issue where the relation between law, authority, and jurisdiction is not shown in the HTML e.g. see legal page where only laws are listed</p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> better to fix this in this version itself<br>
<span id=x175>… Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/48">#48</a> fix this in time for 2.0 release</span></p>
<p id=x176 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/48#issuecomment-2231293962">comment</a></p>
<p id=x177 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/170">#170</a></p>
<p id=x178 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/170">Issue 170</a></strong> Add Lawfulness concept for each Law/Regulation (by coolharsh55) [todo] [eu-nis2] [eu-aiact] [eu-dga]</p>
<p id=x180 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> simple to do - add lawfulness and compliant concepts to each law defined<br>
<span id=x181>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/147">#147</a></span></p>
<p id=x182 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/147">Issue 147</a></strong> Create extension EU NIS2 (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [help-wanted] [eu-nis2]</p>
<p id=x184 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> pending work for NIS2 includes adding concepts e.g. authorities, list of critical sectors<br>
<span id=x185>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143">#143</a></span></p>
<p id=x186 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143">Issue 143</a></strong> Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [AI] [eu-aiact]</p>
<p id=x187 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> what is the difference between this and 110 ?</p>
<p id=x188 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> 110 is about AI extension in general, this is about AIRO/VAIR which are delaram's outputs and how to integrate them</p>
<p id=x189 class=summary> assigned to delaram, planned to be completed by September</p>
<p id=x190 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">#126</a></p>
<p id=x191 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">Issue 126</a></strong> AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [help-wanted] [AI]</p>
<p id=x192 class=summary> same as above - about AI extension in general, 110 is about ISO standard, 143 is about AIRO/VAIR, this is about the extension overall</p>
<p id=x193 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">#103</a></p>
<p id=x194 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">Issue 103</a></strong> Guide for Data Breach (by coolharsh55) [guide] [WIP] [eu-gdpr]</p>
<p id=x196 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> work in progress<br>
<span id=x197>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/91">#91</a></span></p>
<p id=x198 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/91">Issue 91</a></strong> Provide guidance for implementing ISO/IEC 29184 Privacy Notice using DPV (by coolharsh55) [guide] [WIP] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x200 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> working on this right now - hope to have a demo ready for next week about machine-readable notices<br>
<span id=x201>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a></span></p>
<p id=x202 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong> Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [help-wanted] [risk]</p>
<p id=x204 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> there is some pending proposals about adding in risk management<br>
<span id=x205>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/66">#66</a></span></p>
<p id=x206 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/66">Issue 66</a></strong> Provide a Guide on use of DPV for DPIA (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [docs] [eu-gdpr]</p>
<p id=x207 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> work in progress</p>
<p id=x208 class=summary> assigned to tytti</p>
<p id=x209 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/67">#67</a></p>
<p id=x210 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/67">Issue 67</a></strong> Provide for Guide using DPV for ROPA (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [docs] [eu-gdpr]</p>
<p id=x212 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> work in progress - based on Paul's PhD work<br>
<span id=x213>… <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">#63</a></span></p>
<p id=x214 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4) [todo] [eu-gdpr]</p>
<p id=x215 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is about linking non-fulfilment justifications to GDPR rights similar to how legal basis and rights are related</p>
<p id=x216 class=summary> assigned to beatriz</p>
<p id=x217 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/4">#4</a></p>
<p id=x218 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/4">Issue 4</a></strong> Machine-readable requests to execute rights (by coolharsh55) [rights] [guide] [WIP]</p>
<p id=x219 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is about how to exercise a right, what data is needed, how to specify in response identity is needed</p>
<p id=x220 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> have work on this</p>
<p id=x221 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> good paper for JURIX, the CFP is out <a href="https://jurix.nl/jurix-2024-call-for-papers/">https://<wbr>jurix.nl/<wbr>jurix-2024-call-for-papers/</a> with deadline SEP-06, conference is on DEC-11 in Brno, Czech</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x223 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be continuation of current discussion with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
