<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 18 September 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>18 September 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/FF0D259C-CCAA-49D6-9AEB-9D259E0832A1@wu.ac.at"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/09/18-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert, simonstey</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Bert</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>stefano</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x026 class=summary>do you need to assign me as a scribe?</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary>Bert asks whether there are more items for the agenda, no items added</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary>No comments on the previous meeting's minutes</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> items: action &quot;Add some overview of SPECIAL use case(s)&quot; for Bert is half done</p>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'items'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>still on progress</p>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-9</p>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-9.</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary>Action Nr. 9: Axel talked to Stefan Dekker but the action is not concluded yet</p>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Nr.'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary>About Action 12: Simon has already worked at the requirements templates some weeks ago</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-12?</p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/12">action-12</a></strong> Simon Steyskal to Look over requirements template -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Template_for_requirements">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Template_for_requirements</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=summary>The action has been discussed in a previous meeting, unclear why still open</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-12</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-12.</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary>About Action 14: Axel still needs to follow up with contact with IEEE 7012</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary>About Action 17: Axel would like to decide what we want to build a vocabulary for, this is listed in the charter, this would be categories of data, purposes and processing</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary>Axel would like people would clarify their thoughts on these 3 points, since these are core points at least for a start</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary>it would be good to read the use cases in this light, so to categorize it according to the three above-mentioned points</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary>Axel is unsure about what more we need as far as requirements are concerned, more than what we already have or could get from what we have now</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary>also interesting categorisation of Data Controllers, but this is secondary</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> is data controller == data processor?</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary>No, it is different</p>
<p id=x055 class=summary>Stefano proposes to add storage location, security and time of storage</p>
<p id=x057 class=summary>Simon asks whether we want to talk about data processors as well</p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.gdpreu.org/the-regulation/key-concepts/data-controllers-and-processors/">https://<wbr>www.gdpreu.org/<wbr>the-regulation/<wbr>key-concepts/<wbr>data-controllers-and-processors/</a></p>
<p id=x059 class=summary>Axel proposes to close the list of categories and start examining the use cases</p>
<p id=x060 class=summary>About Action 18: Stefano had a look at one use case from Mydata but more work needs to be done</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-22</p>
<p id=x062 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-22.</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary>Action 22: Nobody is going to the conference from the DECODE project</p>
<p id=x064 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding '22'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: This is the initial requirements we want to cover in DPVCG</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> * GDPR Terminology:</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data controller</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data processor</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data recipient</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data subject</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> * We want to define hierarchical taxonomies (backed by use cases) of</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * categories of personal data</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * (personal data handling) purposes</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * processing categories</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * categories of data controllers, processors, recipients (optional)</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * storage locations</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * security measures (incl. e.g. anonymisation &quot;levels&quot;)</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * storage duration</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> no audio :(</p>
<p id=x082 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> I'll type instead</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Should we be comprehensive about ALL terms in the context of GDPR compliance? e.g. data source, consent &amp; how it was given, etc.</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s01"><cite>Javier:</cite> In Vienna there was a comment about anonymisation of personal data<br>
<span id=x088>… This might be included in the security category</span><br>
<span id=x089>… Pseudoanonymisation is explicitly mentioned as security measure in the GDPR</span></p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s02"><cite>Stefano:</cite> consent should be covered for GDPR</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we need to formalise consent, this is the reason why he proposed the categories already mentioned</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s02"><cite>Stefano:</cite> I think we can start with what Axel proposes</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: I'd be happy to take it from there if we think that this list is not enough to formalize consent (happy to open an issue for that along with the proposal</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s02"><cite>Stefano:</cite> Harsh proposes to have a different section on the discussion regarding terms such as consent, to have a place where the different meaning are listed so they can be referred back to<br>
<span id=x100>… This section would be on the wiki</span><br>
<span id=x101>… Harsh is willing to start this section</span><br>
<span id=x102>… ACTION to Harsh: create a section about different terms on the wiki</span></p>
<p id=x103 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'to'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s04"><cite>SImon:</cite> we can explicitly indicate that the list could be expanded in the future</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: This is an initial non-comprehensive list of GDPR Terminology terms, we want to define/agree upon in DPVCG (we might extend this list upon additional proposals):</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data controller</p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data processor</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data recipient</p>
<p id=x109 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data subject</p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition consent</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x114 class="phone s04"><cite>SImon:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x116 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x117 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x118 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> should compliance be included? Axel: the notion should be put in a separete proposal</p>
<p id=x121 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> should compliance be included? Axel: the notion should be put in a separate proposal</p>
<p id=x122 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> This is an initial non-comprehensive list of GDPR Terminology terms, we want to define/agree upon in DPVCG (we might extend this list upon additional proposals):</p>
<p id=x124 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data controller</p>
<p id=x125 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data processor</p>
<p id=x126 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data recipient</p>
<p id=x127 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition data subject</p>
<p id=x128 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * agreed definition consent</p>
<p id=x129 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: We want to the define the following hierarchical taxonomies (backed by use cases), where again we might extend this list upon additional proposals):</p>
<p id=x130 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * categories of personal data</p>
<p id=x131 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * (personal data handling) purposes</p>
<p id=x132 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * processing categories</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * categories of data controllers, processors, recipients (optional)</p>
<p id=x134 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * storage locations</p>
<p id=x135 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * security measures (including e.g. anonymisation &quot;levels&quot;, pseudonymisation)</p>
<p id=x136 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * storage duration</p>
<p id=x137 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x138 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x140 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x141 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x142 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x143 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> We want to the define the following hierarchical taxonomies (backed by use cases), where again we might extend this list upon additional proposals):</p>
<p id=x145 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * categories of personal data</p>
<p id=x146 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * (personal data handling) purposes</p>
<p id=x147 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * processing categories</p>
<p id=x148 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * categories of data controllers, processors, recipients (optional)</p>
<p id=x149 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * storage locations</p>
<p id=x150 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * security measures (including e.g. anonymisation &quot;levels&quot;, pseudonymisation)</p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite>     * storage duration</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s02"><cite>Stefano:</cite> compliance is not something that you can self-assess and assign to your case</p>
<p id=x157 class="phone s05"><cite>Harsh:</cite> some terms related to compliance such as transparence could be relevant to the group</p>
<p id=x158 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we need to define what needs to be defined in a machine-readable manner, for his minimalistic view this is not needed at this stage, but if there is a use case for it it can be included</p>
<p id=x159 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> data subject rights are important, should this be included?</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> do we need to formulate a notion of compliance in scope of the CG?</p>
<p id=x162 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-2 - Do we need to formulate a notion of compliance in scope of the cg?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/2/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>2/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> do we want to revisit a definition of &quot;GDPR rights&quot; in our definitions and taxonomies?</p>
<p id=x164 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-3 - Do we want to revisit a definition of &quot;gdpr rights&quot; in our definitions and taxonomies?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/3/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>3/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x167 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> stefano: e.g. right to be forgotten, how can it be executed/enforced</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s04"><cite>Simon:</cite> there could be ways to express already rights for example in terms of permissions using e.g. ODRL</p>
<p id=x171 class="phone s01"><cite>Javier:</cite> how do you want to collect the different items, one per page? Axel: we could think in terms of questions, that should be answered per use case, and give us a start</p>
<p id=x173 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: need to run ... I would like to talk about next time on in how far in our use cases we have collected so far cover the aspects we have now agree upon, in terms of concrete questions that should be answred per use case.</p>
<p id=x176 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> suggestion for having a small example to get people started<br>
<span id=x177>… Axel will try to do so</span></p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to formulate a use case to exemplify what I proposed today ☺ (categorization along the categories and terminology we agreed upon today)</p>
<p id=x179 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-24 - Formulate a use case to exemplify what i proposed today :-) (categorization along the categories and terminology we agreed upon today) [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-09-25].</p>
<p id=x180 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> needed to run, sorry</p>
<p id=x181 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> thanks all!</p>
<p id=x182 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> Bert ask whether there are more points to discuss, but this is it for today, next call in 2 weeks</p>
<p id=x183 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> thank you &amp;&amp; good day : )</p>
<p id=x184 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> Thanks</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">items: action &quot;Add some overview of SPECIAL use case(s)&quot; for Bert is half done</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to formulate a use case to exemplify what I proposed today ☺ (categorization along the categories and terminology we agreed upon today)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">This is an initial non-comprehensive list of GDPR Terminology terms, we want to define/agree upon in DPVCG (we might extend this list upon additional proposals):</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">We want to the define the following hierarchical taxonomies (backed by use cases), where again we might extend this list upon additional proposals):</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">do we need to formulate a notion of compliance in scope of the CG?</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">do we want to revisit a definition of &quot;GDPR rights&quot; in our definitions and taxonomies?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
