<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 18 MAY 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>18 MAY 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/80194c7d-8a93-4621-a048-6c6b95d0e255"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/05/18-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">W3C TPAC</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Data Breach</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">29184 and 27560</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x005 class=summary>ghurlbot, harsh is coolharsh55</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> harsh, I already had that GitHub account for harsh</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>W3C TPAC</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary>We have the opportunity to meet at TPAC and have a session. It is also possible to do another joint session, e.g. as last year with ODRL.</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>Deadline for this is 22 May - so let harsh know before that.</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>So far we have 3 participants - harsh, georg, beatriz. This is not enough for the session.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Data Breach</h3>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Continuing from the previous discussion on data breach notifications and records.</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>There are some open questions regarding information required for data breach.</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>1) Impact on fundamental rights is expressed as a likelihood, rather than mere existence or applicability. This is so that DPV's existing risk assessment framework can be used. Note that it does not include specifying likelihood as 0, just that it is unlikely.</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>2) Establishments are complicated to represent - no idea on how to do these.</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary>3) Sector is represented as four groupings of public, private, charity, and voluntary. These would need to be described as types of organisations since the NACE taxonomy already models the sectors.</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary>4) Question of how to represent data breach IDs - there can be multiple ones such as internal, each DPAs own identifier. To assist with this, we can have DataBreachIdentifier as the concept and then annotate it to indicate who provided or when.</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>5) The cause of the breach can be modelled as a Threat Actor - this is not a concept in the ISO risk taxonomy but is needed since data breach actions can be intentional or accidental activities by specific individuals</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>6) Awareness of data breach is a notification if communicated by someone else which allows recording its time and the entity that sent it</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>7) Risk Source is the event or condition that causes the risk, e.g. someone was not secured which allowed the threat actor to access the data. The risk source exists because of e.g. vulnerability of a system which is mitigated by a mitigation measure. </p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>8) Specific measures taken in response to the breach would be BreachMitigationMeasure</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>29184 and 27560</h3>
<p id=x028 class=summary>Processing Condition and how to specify withdrawal method and how to provide information about the withdrawal method when it is not a right</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary>How to keep rectified rights i.e. say rights to erasure are not applicable</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary>How to express and record choice vs consent</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary>Machine-readable notice but would it also specify components e.g. buttons and implications</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The next meeting will take place on 25 May at 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
