<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 13 MAR 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>13 MAR 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240313T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul, steveHickman, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh, tytti</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, tytti</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">GDPR Rights Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">TOM concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Resource Paper</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">Writing the paper</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Usage Analysis</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Timeline</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">DPV v2</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t09">Risk Extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">issue management</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">w3id config</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">DPV marketing page</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t13">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-03-13">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-03-13</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>GDPR Rights Justifications</h3>
<p id=x010 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> justifications to be added for: delay, exercise, non-fulfillment, and the justifications from article 34 are modelled as not-required</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Article 23 regarding Exemptions to GDPR that are possible by member states has been taken out and is not in justifications anymore</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> will have a new look but the current terms are okay to continue with</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> EDPB published proposal on the exercise of rights that is relevant here and which should be reviewed for work on rights exercise. See CEF 2024: Launch of coordinated enforcement on the right of access <a href="https://www.edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2024/cef-2024-launch-coordinated-enforcement-right-access_en">https://<wbr>www.edpb.europa.eu/<wbr>news/<wbr>news/<wbr>2024/<wbr>cef-2024-launch-coordinated-enforcement-right-access_en</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> next steps on this are to produce the general Justifications extension which will then by extended within the existing GDPR extension under a Justifications section. So there will be two difference HTML pages.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>AI Act</h3>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">Issue 126</a></strong>  AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> Question about which concepts should go in which extension - Tech or AI Act or DPV? Looking at ISO 22989 definitions to be used in the tech extension - the wording is different from the AI Act e.g. General Purpose AI System. Some definitions are similar and aligned. Others need analysis.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> Aligning concepts between AI Act and Tech extension. Example - deep fake</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s04"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> IOPD is looking for definitions such as these so how to create this?</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> definitions that are expected to be important should have authoritative sources for definitions, and we can use multiple definitions and sources for our concepts as long as they are not conflicting with each other</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> Lets start with concepts that are easily aligned between AI Act and Tech to create the respective drafts and proposals which will then get updated with time. We can use AIRO and VAIR as the basis to do Tech extension. Are they up to date? Can we use them like this?</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> VAIR is up to date, AIRO is being updated at the moment for the AI Act. But they can be used for this.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>TOM concepts</h3>
<p id=x026 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> <code>dpv:ROPA</code> being added. Other Organisational measures in the spreadsheet that are proposed should be reviewed and resolved - please review and help resolve these.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> For the Legal measure taxonomy, I have copied the Organisational measures and then the task is to go through each measure and if it is a 'legal implementation' then we keep it in the taxonomy. For example, contracts are but (generic) notice is not. </p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> One challenge here is with 'Contract' which is a term for both legal basis and legal measure - how to resolve this?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s06"><cite>paul:</cite> can we use 'contractual necessity' instead of contract for the term? </p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> that will not be a good idea as we don't want to change the existing 'contract' legal basis - so ideally we can have a new term for the legal measure.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> how about <code>ContractualMeasure</code>?</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> discussion concluded with agreement that this can be useful as a legal measure - to be reviewed in next meeting</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Resource Paper</h3>
<h4 id=t05>Writing the paper</h4>
<p id=x035 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> beatriz and I met on Friday to discuss the paper. We took the DCAT paper as an example, and identified the sections that should be present in the paper based on the requirements of the call. See <a href="https://iswc2024.semanticweb.org/event/3715c6fc-e2d7-47eb-8c01-5fe4ac589a52/summary">https://<wbr>iswc2024.semanticweb.org/<wbr>event/<wbr>3715c6fc-e2d7-47eb-8c01-5fe4ac589a52/<wbr>summary</a> In terms of authors, we have people who have contributed - harsh as lead, and then beatriz, georg, paul, delaram, and julian. Are there any others? Please let us know if you identify any key contributors.  </p>
<h4 id=t06>Usage Analysis</h4>
<p id=x037 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> a key section in the paper is how the vocabulary is being adopted and used - for this we should analyse the citations for the previous DPV paper and identify how DPV is being used or cited. This will be a superficial preliminary analysis e.g. to see if DPV is merely cited as a state of the art resource, or the work expands on it, or identifies any gaps or weaknesses. Currently as per Google Scholar, we have something close to 70-80 citations. Excluding citations from this group, we may have approximately 50 citations. This work requires volunteers. Previous analysis on this was put on the wiki -  <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Adoption_of_DPVCG">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Adoption_of_DPVCG</a></p>
<p id=x038 class=summary> harsh, delaram, paul, tytti, beatriz will divide the work and analyse the citations</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> For other uses of DPV e.g. commercial, policy - will liase with georg and others to collect this information. We already have some Horizon projects which use DPV, standards that reference or want to use it, etc.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> would like to read and review the paper</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> European Data Innovation Board had a meeting on MAR-07, no minutes available. Trying to share DPV with them. DPV was shared earlier with DG-CNECT - so trying to see if DPV made the agenda or to get a meeting with the GDPR folks</p>
<h4 id=t07>Timeline</h4>
<p id=x043 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> the deadline for the paper is APR-17, aiming to have a draft available by MAR-31 so that people can see what content is expected to be present in the paper and how it is structured while the paper is being polished and completed</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>DPV v2</h3>
<h4 id=t09>Risk Extension</h4>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> was looking at the risk extension issue on Github - we are working on risk definitions which differ a lot.</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">Issue 104</a></strong>  Re-evaluate Risk Assessment concepts #104 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong>  Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, this will probably be based on the ISO definitions which are the most suitabe 'standard' - though very generic and there are too many variances to the concept. </p>
<h4 id=t10>issue management</h4>
<p id=x051 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> have analysed the github issues and will be updating/resolving them in the coming week - some issues may not be visible as they are closed</p>
<h4 id=t11>w3id config</h4>
<p id=x053 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> the W3ID config through which our purl e.g. <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv</a> is directed to github pages needs to be updated for the new layout </p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> the broken links have already been pointed out by Pat McBennett - so this should be resolved soon</p>
<h4 id=t12>DPV marketing page</h4>
<p id=x056 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> a challenge in sharing the link to DPV is that it takes the viewer straight to the technical specification which can be intimidating and verbose for a new person to figure out what DPV is, what it contains, where it can be used etc. How about we setup a 'marketing page' for DPV which gives this information in a easy format and then the technical specifications can be where they are. The marketing page can be what is easily shared with other people e.g. <code>dpvcg.org</code> and is much easier than sharing a complex w3id url or a github page.</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> like the idea, support it</p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> no other responses, this will be taken up again in the next meeting.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x060 class=summary> Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED MAR-20 15:00 WET / 16:00 CET.</p>
<p id=x061 class=summary> Topics for discussion are</p>
<p id=x062 class=summary> 1) Rights Justification - finalise output and produce documentation - beatriz, harsh</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary> 2) AI Act and Tech concepts by delaram - identify 'simple' subset of concepts to add, start work on AIRO and VAIR integrations</p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> 3) TOMs by harsh - to resolve the proposed concepts</p>
<p id=x065 class=summary> 4) w3id config update by harsh</p>
<p id=x066 class=summary> 5) github issues update by harsh</p>
<p id=x067 class=summary> 6) dpv marketing page by harsh</p>
<p id=x068 class=summary> 7) dpv resource paper</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
