<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 19 MAY 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>19 MAY 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021May/0003.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/05/19-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>:, beatriz, david, harsh, nishad, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Legitimate Interest</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Update on moving repos on GitHub under W3C</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">process of updating/adding terms</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Legitimate Interest</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>last discussion ended on LI subclasses for data controller and third party</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>proposal was to have LegitimateInterestOfThirdParty and specify the ThirdParty using hasDataController property</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>Discussion on how to specify a specific Third Party is associated with LegitimateInterestOfThirdParty.</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>david:</cite> (David Hickey) Controller may have contract with ThirdParty (e.g. insurance and fraud detection) where that legal bases are estalblished<br>
<span id=x015>… put a note mentioning the various possibilities of associating third parties with their legitimate interest</span></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>nishad:</cite> how to define LI? Is there a specific definition.<br>
<span id=x019>… discussion on interest, legitimate interest, and what constitutes legitimate</span><br>
<span id=x020>… For GDPR's data transfer legal bases, these will be extensions of these legal bases</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Update on moving repos on GitHub under W3C</h3>
<p id=x022 class="phone s02"><cite>nishad:</cite> we're in the process of finalising the repo under W3C</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>process of updating/adding terms</h3>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>nishad:</cite> okay with the current process; value in discussions<br>
<span id=x027>… people also discuss use-cases and then come up with terms</span><br>
<span id=x028>… Should we capture the use-cases? How?</span></p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>paul:</cite> there are currently some areas that are shallow, some more enriched, we can give more focus to enrice the areas lacking in terms<br>
<span id=x031>… we could have parallel working groups that work on specific concepts and then propose a more streamlined proposal</span></p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>Nishad:</cite> there should be something for 'privacy' that relates to privacy concerns of for non-legal adopters to make it easier for them to use.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>Nishad:</cite> Next meeting will be in 2 weeks, JUN-02 13:00 WEST / 14:00 CEST<br>
<span id=x038>… Harsh may be unavailable (attending a conference)</span><br>
<span id=x039>… Beatriz will chair the meeting</span><br>
<span id=x040>… Paul and David have agreed to take a look at safeguards and tech&amp;org measures</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
