<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 19 March 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>19 March 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/03/19-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>axel, bert, bud, eva, harsh, mark</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">f2f</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">AOB?</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minute from last call   <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/02/26-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>02/<wbr>26-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert to polish the minutes from last call.</p>
<p id=x005 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'Bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> I just joined IRC - is there a link already to notes.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> BBos to polish the minutes from last call.</p>
<p id=x008 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-73 - Polish the minutes from last call. [on Bert Bos - due 2019-03-26].</p>
<p id=x009 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close Action-73</p>
<p id=x010 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed Action-73.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to polish the minutes from last call.</p>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-74 - Polish the minutes from last call. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-03-26].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>f2f</h3>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> options for F2F? 2-3 april, 4-5 april, 5-6 april</p>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> 4-5th in Dublin ist possible</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Trinity college dublin 4+5 April</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>Any other options proposed?</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark, Axel, Harsh, Bud can make it.</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Bert maybe.</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Eva can't make it.</p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: fix F2F in Dublin 4+5 April</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> +1 from Bud</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> fix F2F in Dublin 4+5 April</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary>Harsh to send information about Dublin: hotels, transport, etc.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> h: Harsh to send information about Dublin: hotels, transport, etc.</p>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'h'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> looking at Open actions</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to send information about Dublin: hotels, transport, etc. for F2F</p>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-75 - Send information about dublin: hotels, transport, etc. for f2f [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-03-26].</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> ACTION-71 is ongoing</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-70 to do for next call</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We can have a meeting on 2nd April to talk about actions that are ready, and to decide on the agenda for F2F</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>Mark:</cite> ACTION-69 EIC is completely booked, it's too late to get involved</p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-69: too late for EIC</p>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-69 Report on eic conference next time.</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-69</p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-69.</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-67 is ongoing</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-66: last email <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Mar/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Mar/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-66 Look into structuring processing categories, ramisa, bud, eva to help/review..</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s04"><cite>harsh:</cite> ACTION-66 types of processing on mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Mar/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Mar/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> ACTION-66 and ACTION-68 can be wrapped up in the F2F</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-66 and ACTION-68 have some input to discuss inthe F2F</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> ACTION-65 is ongoing</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-65 also ongoing</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> for all building blocks we should have some minimal concrete proposals at the f2f</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-63</p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-63.</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-62</p>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-62.</p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> sound issues</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> action 60 done</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding '60'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> wrote an email</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> I have added some entries to the  wiki in the Prox use case</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Action-53: Axel: I will try to prioritizze this by the F2F.</p>
<p id=x062 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to Action-53 Together with harsh, fajar, javier start on a base ontology, suggest a namespace, etc. and start populate the sub-taxonomies, agree on language to model it..</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> Eva's mail regarding ACTION-60 <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Mar/0019.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Mar/<wbr>0019.html</a></p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> yes that one</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> sorry, sound always a nervous pony here :(</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-60</p>
<p id=x067 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-60.</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> yes thank you</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to map all closed and pending review actions to the respective edoitors/responsibles of parts ofg our taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x070 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-76 - Map all closed and pending review actions to the respective edoitors/responsibles of parts ofg our taxonomy. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-03-26].</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> We need to check in the F2F, if whatever we do matches the use cases on the wiki.</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> I have added information to some fields for Proximus use-case when working on ACTION-60</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s02"><cite>Eva:</cite> Will check back with Rudy regarding ACTION-36</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-34: Niklas had sent an email, asking for additional input ... Harsh suggests to work with what we have.</p>
<p id=x075 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-34 Start structuring categories of personal data and involved dimensions together with elmar and harsh, mark.</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-33: subsumed by ACTION-68</p>
<p id=x077 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-33 Summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with mark lizar on &quot;concent receipt&quot; definition (e.g. on delegation).</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s04"><cite>harsh:</cite> ACTION-34 Working on some upper-level taxonomy to describe part-of and combination type relationships</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: should mark ACTION-68 as pending review</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s03"><cite>Mark:</cite> ACTION-33 and ACTION-68 Rigo has said he would look at it, Bud is currently reviewing it. Maybe we should have another task to review it.</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-68: more emails on ACTION-68 worthwhile, waiting for Rigo's review</p>
<p id=x082 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-68 Looking into consent elements and types with help of mark.</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> put ACTION-68 and all other parts of the taxonomy and their status on the agenda for the f2f</p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> no, no news yet</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Eva: Unfortunately, I need to leave soon, but Bud will stay till the end of the telco</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> What parts do we need to prioritize?</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> +1 regarding poll</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to set up a doodle to collect points and actions to be discussed at the F2F (and possibly name someone present willing to present/discuss there)?</p>
<p id=x089 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-77 - Set up a doodle to collect points and actions to be discussed at the f2f (and possibly name someone present willing to present/discuss there)? [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-03-26].</p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s04"><cite>harsh:</cite> We can have a poll to see interests of attendees in F2F, and if there are discrete groups, maybe have parallel discussions</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva&gt;</cite> Eva: need to leave now, Bud still in the telco. Bye :)</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Where do we collect the current draft(s)?</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s03"><cite>Mark:</cite> We can have a draft/document listing progress and state of things</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: Rather stay with the W3C wiki for the moment.</p>
<p id=x095 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> if things are not on the wiki, please make it known so for collecting progress</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>AOB?</h3>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark: collect content on the wiki.</p>
<p id=x098 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: collect comments and work on the wiki, use mailinglist just to announce that there are news on the wiki?</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> axel - can you hear us? your connection seems frozen</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Can you still hear me?</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> No</p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> sounds good, but we need terms, descriptions and a place for those in the taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I can hear you, but I seem to have lost my mic</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> ENISA report regarding network security and privacy standards - <a href="https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/guidance-and-gaps-analysis-for-european-standardisation">https://<wbr>www.enisa.europa.eu/<wbr>publications/<wbr>guidance-and-gaps-analysis-for-european-standardisation</a></p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> is that an input for us?</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> no access to ISO here</p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Yes, it has loads of information relevant for the security taxonomy work</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I can't ifx my audio, it seems.</p>
<p id=x109 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> link to the ISO standard?</p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> So, we talk again in two weeks before the F2F? adjourn?</p>
<p id=x111 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I think mark meant access to ISO documents</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Thanks all!!!!</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> I can source ISO documents if I know for which ones to look out for :P</p>
<p id=x114 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> please make arrangements for F2F and all who want to join remotely, let us know on the mailinglist!</p>
<p id=x115 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> thanks</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Bert to polish the minutes from last call.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">BBos to polish the minutes from last call.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">harsh to polish the minutes from last call.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">h: Harsh to send information about Dublin: hotels, transport, etc.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Harsh to send information about Dublin: hotels, transport, etc. for F2F</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Axel to map all closed and pending review actions to the respective edoitors/responsibles of parts ofg our taxonomy.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Harsh to set up a doodle to collect points and actions to be discussed at the F2F (and possibly name someone present willing to present/discuss there)?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">fix F2F in Dublin 4+5 April</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
