<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 20 November 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>20 November 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/11/20-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Elmar, Eva, Harsh, Henrik, Ramisa, Rigo, Uros</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>(going through open actions)</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> Rigo chairs call atm</p>
<p id=x009 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> IEEE also working on open vocabularies, are you aware of that?</p>
<p id=x010 class="phone s02"><cite>henrik:</cite> yes, can look into it</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> Henrik, can you introduce you to some of this work going on in IEEE?</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s02"><cite>henrik:</cite> Yes, I can do that.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Hendrik: to introduce IEEE privacy work to one of the next DPVCG meetings</p>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Hendrik'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> I sent an email earlier today with discussion on legitimation of data processing (in relation to ACTION-32)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> I think we should spend some time on it (summarise elements of consent).</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> I think there is some progress. We had a meeting on that (locally) with Niklas, and with Sabrina from SPECIAL, to discuss their categorisation. We encounter some general conceptual issues trying to formulate extensions of SPECIAL vocabulary.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> This is something we will be working on in the Vienna meeting.</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> How do I raise hand here again?</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> What categories are you considering? We have data types in P3P (from Firefly, bought by Microsoft), which had a perfect type of v-card. Depends on what categories you are looking for. What type of data you have.<br>
<span id=x022>… To get on queue, you can use plus (sign) q</span></p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> ah thanks</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> I think in the PrimeLab project, we did some categorisation project. But I don't think we went anything beyond what P3P did, which was pretty complete. So you get the data, and it already would be in the categories.</p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> do we stick to a queue at all? :D</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> We started from the user perspective. You can go bottom-up or bottom-down to come up with a comprehensive categories that could be interesting. There are some different conceptualisations, some are centered around domains such as health, some are legal, some are anonymised or derived (technical in that sense), some are focused on origin (physical activity, etc.)</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> There seem to be a lot of perspectives.</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> There can be an infinite number of perspectives. There is also if data can be sensitive or not. We have finite number of data, but infinite categories.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> In the F2F meeting, you can ask Axel to have an agenda item for work done so far</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> We should use the Vienna meeting to exchange basic knowledge about things like that. Rigo can introduce more about data categories work done so far.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> Depends on what the vocabularies are to be used for. Can be heuristic or directly applicable.<br>
<span id=x037>… (above discussion for ACTION-33)</span></p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> starting with ACTION-34. Has this been done?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> This looks done, we can close this.</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> trackbot, close ACTION 35</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Sorry, rigo, I don't understand 'trackbot, close ACTION 35'. Please refer to &lt;<a href="http://www.w3.org/2005/06/tracker/irc">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2005/<wbr>06/<wbr>tracker/<wbr>irc</a>&gt; for help.</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> close issue-35</p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed issue-35.</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> close action-39</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-39.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> (ACTION-39) I have forwarded this to Christof, we can close this.</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> resolved and done</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> My impression is that there have been a lot of conceptual discussions going on in the mailing list. It is difficult to determine progress. We should use Vienna meeting to focus.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> We can suggest that first 2-3 hours of Vienna meeting to agree on a common understanding of what the ultimate goal of the taxonomies/group would be.</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> What are we working towards, that would help in focusing and structuring the inputs more.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>elmar:</cite> I think this would be a good idea to list the use-cases, and to see whether they should be covered or excluded. In the categories, they can be unlimited. Depending on what the vocabularies should describe, so we can start from that.</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> the issue here is that we have a schema.org kind of a situation, in that there is an inifinite number of contexts. We try to analyse several use-cases and find common uses we can write into the taxonomy. So later people can look this up and re-use. Some has done been done by ISO in 29000 series (?) but this was pre-GDPR top-down vocabulary. We need to link this to the legal vocabulary.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> This will help people and tooling that we promoted in the workshop to have a common understanding (w.r.t data understanding).</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> I agree with Rigo that we have to do some scoping w.r.t community group.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s05"><cite>(reminder:</cite> Meeting in Vienna will be on 3rd December)</p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> I think 8:30 is too early to start on the 3rd - I'll arrive in the morning</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> Any non-EU people attending (in terms of travel distance)</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> It would be nice to continue on 4th</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva__ULD_:</cite> Suggestions on timings to be sent on mailing list</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> Do we know how many people are attending? The doodle shows 7.</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> To remind Axel via email about participants for Vienna meeting<br>
<span id=x063>… rigo and Eva__ULD: discussing meeting timings. Starting at 10:30 and going on until 4th till lunch.</span></p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to create a wiki page for the Agenda for the F2F meeting</p>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-40 - Create a wiki page for the agenda for the f2f meeting [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2018-11-27].</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> Urosh do you want to discuss use-cases more, or do you expect to come to Vienna?</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s07"><cite>Urosh:</cite> we will not be attending that one</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> we should discuss the agenda and also on the wiki</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Eva to send email with suggested timing for the Agenda as talked about during the last DPVCG call</p>
<p id=x070 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-41 - Send email with suggested timing for the agenda as talked about during the last dpvcg call [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2018-11-27].</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> adjourned</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Hendrik: to introduce IEEE privacy work to one of the next DPVCG meetings</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Harsh to create a wiki page for the Agenda for the F2F meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Eva to send email with suggested timing for the Agenda as talked about during the last DPVCG call</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
