<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 01 SEP 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>01 SEP 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Aug/0009.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/09/01-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizE, davidH, georgK, harsh, paulR</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Expanding Purpose taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Presentation by Piero on TRAPEZE SEP-15</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Expanding Purpose taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x009 class=summary>previous minutes - <a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/08/25-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2021/<wbr>08/<wbr>25-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>spreadsheet - <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11bjy424zwC_j4bj9pnhmmI8o7RgrJfX4NgsZ31iR3Wo/edit#gid=136191586">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>11bjy424zwC_j4bj9pnhmmI8o7RgrJfX4NgsZ31iR3Wo/<wbr>edit#gid=136191586</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>term Communication</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> better phrased as correspondence? e.g. email to send some information<br>
<span id=x014>… discussion on being a standalone purpose, ambiguity</span></p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> communicate would be part of other purpose most of the times, e.g. communicate for service provision or delivery</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>georgK:</cite> communication is clearer than correspondence, e.g. to specify chats on a website<br>
<span id=x019>… consensus on communication as a term, with added caveat or warning specifying that this term is usually combined with other purpose to make it specific what the communication is about or for</span><br>
<span id=x020>… term HumanResources</span></p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s04"><cite>paulR:</cite> should this be HumanResourceManagement</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> does HR contain employment, hiring? (ans: yes)<br>
<span id=x024>… subclasses of HR are apparent in its description, e.g. payroll</span></p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> we keep the top-level term and remove subclasses<br>
<span id=x028>… we later focus on HR as a purpose to expand the taxonomy</span><br>
<span id=x029>… consensus on this action</span></p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> employees as a data subject category has a lot of considerations, which would be related to this, so better for later discussion<br>
<span id=x033>… term VendorManagement</span><br>
<span id=x034>… term occurs as is (exact) in Belgian ROPA template</span></p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> if subclasses are comprehensive, similar to HR, e.g. vendor procurement<br>
<span id=x037>… discussion on whether we can limit term to the top concept of VendorManagement</span></p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> new term VendorSelectionAssessment<br>
<span id=x041>… consensus on VendorManagement and subclassess</span><br>
<span id=x042>… term PublicRelations</span></p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> if this is a part of Marketing<br>
<span id=x046>… consensus on PublicRelations being under Marketing</span><br>
<span id=x047>… term OrganisationGovernance</span></p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s05"><cite>beatrizE:</cite> HR can be subclass of OrganisationGovernance</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s04"><cite>paulR:</cite> several other concepts can go under governance, e.g. marketing; but this concept relates to purposes of running or functioning of the organisation</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> does LegalCompliance fall under governance (ans: no, it can be for individual)</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> new term CorporateRiskManagement, where does KYC fall (Legal Compliance?)</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Are there two concepts here, OrganisationComplianceManagement and OrganisationRiskManagement<br>
<span id=x054>… term MemberManagement also exists in Belgian ROPA related to members e.g. of a club. But complex to include under OrganisationGovernance because members may not be 'part' of organisation, merely affiliated</span></p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>georgK:</cite> Art.9-1d has specific mention of 'members'</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> we can substitute 'Shareholder' with 'Member' to have 'MemberPartnerManagement'<br>
<span id=x058>… consensus on term</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Presentation by Piero on TRAPEZE SEP-15</h3>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> Will share title,description in coming week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x062 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> Next week, SEP-08 13:00 WEST / 14:00 CEST</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Agenda:</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s02"><cite>davidH:</cite> wrap up any purpose concepts left to resolve<br>
<span id=x067>… David's Data Transfer concepts</span><br>
<span id=x068>… Other proposed concepts AOB</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
