<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 31 JAN 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>31 JAN 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240131T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, harsh, iain, paul, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georg</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPV v2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">AI Extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Rights Exercise</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">ODRL and DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">P7012 Human-oriented vocab</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-01-31">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-01-31</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPV v2</h3>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Code implementing the new organisation system and documentation layout has been merged/added to the github repo. The changes are live. For the v2 release (target date end of February), people should go through the documents to see if there are any issues (e.g. broken links, incorrect content). Some sections also require additional content. </p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Harsh will put a list about this as a github issue.</p>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/127">Issue 127</a></strong> DPV v2 Release Issue Tracker (by coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>AI Act</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>delaram:</cite> we can go through the concepts next week, and then in the meeting on 14th we can review and integrate the concepts. </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>AI Extension</h3>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">Issue 126</a></strong> AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>delaram:</cite> for the AI extension, we can start with concepts already defined or mentioned in the AI Act, and then see how they can be collected and how to model them in terms of relation with Technology and Risk concepts</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>delaram:</cite> we can use AIRO/VAIR as the starting point for the AI vocabulary</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Rights Exercise</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> have written content about rights exercise concepts, and about justifications associated with rights based on the discussion in github issue e.g. for justifications mentioned in GDPR rights. Will share these for review by paul and georg.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>ODRL and DPV</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/31">Issue 31</a></strong> Mappings from DPV to other vocabularies (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> there is a ODRL meeting next week where this can be mentioned/discussed. For the alignment, we should list DPV concepts and how they can work with ODRL e.g. which can be left/right operands.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>P7012 Human-oriented vocab</h3>
<p id=x028 class="phone s04"><cite>iain:</cite> P7012 is progressing and is expected to have a draft soon by April/May. DPV is part of the work. If there is anything that is required from DPV, we can discuss it as a request to add content or to provide examples for where/how DPV can be used.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x030 class=summary> Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED FEB-07 15:00 WET / 16:00 CET.</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> Topics for discussion are updates on DPV v2, github repo and issues, rights exercise, discussion on AI Act, and Tech/AI vocabulary.</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> CFPs for Privacy Forum conference (15 April <a href="https://www.enisa.europa.eu/events/annual-privacy-forum-2024)">https://<wbr>www.enisa.europa.eu/<wbr>events/<wbr>annual-privacy-forum-2024)</a> and SEMANTiCS (29 April <a href="https://2024-eu.semantics.cc/page/cfp_rev_rep)">https://<wbr>2024-eu.semantics.cc/<wbr>page/<wbr>cfp_rev_rep)</a> have been published. These would be suitable venues for publishing work discussed here.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
