<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 15 MAY 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>15 MAY 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240515T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>alexJarju, beatrizEsteves, georgKrog, janSchallaboeck, julianFlake, markLizar, paulRyan, steveHickman, victorLopezJuarez</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>beatriz, beatrizEsteves</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Involved/Active Statuses</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Tech extension</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">Actors prefix</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Cloud concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Act Prospective Provider</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">GDPR Principles</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Consent Controls</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-05-15">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-05-15</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Justifications</h3>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPR’s rights (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary> Conclusion of discussion: okay to consider this complete and do GDPR linkage after v2 is released</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Involved/Active Statuses</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/116">Issue 116</a></strong> Add Intended and Active Data Subject categories (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> Conclusion of discussion: okay to consider this complete</p>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">Issue 108</a></strong> Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> shouldn't revert concepts be modelled as subsets of correct concepts</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> group agreed to go back to this issue next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Tech extension</h3>
<h4 id=t04>Actors prefix</h4>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/142">Issue 142</a></strong> Changing tech:TechnologyActor to tech:Actor (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> Conclusion of discussion: okay to consider this complete</p>
<h4 id=t05>Cloud concepts</h4>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47">Issue 47</a></strong> ecifying "Cloud Computing" in DPV-TECH (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> No conclusion - discuss again next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>AI Act Prospective Provider</h3>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/146">Issue 146</a></strong> Propose "prospective provider" as a concept (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> if we had this concept, would we need to add similar ones for another entities, e.g., controller, processor, …?</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> ok to have the concept in the AI Act extension as the term is explicitly defined there, but we shouldn’t model generic ones on the DPV spec or else we would need the same concept for other entities and even other type of prospective concepts, e.g., statuses.</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> Conclusion from discussion: accept term to be added into the AI Act extension</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>GDPR Principles</h3>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> see live version <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv/legal/eu/gdpr/#vocab-principles">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>legal/<wbr>eu/<wbr>gdpr/#vocab-principles</a></p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> concepts are useful for DPIAs. Tytti is looking into nacional guidelines for DPIAs and from those more concepts should be added in the future</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> should concepts be added in the GDPR extension and have generic ones on the main spec</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>beatriz:</cite> no need for generic ones for now but this can be revisited in the future if similar principles are found in other jurisdictions</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> Conclusion of discussion: okay to consider this complete</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Consent Controls</h3>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115">Issue 115</a></strong> Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s05"><cite>markLizar:</cite> should we distinguish consent as a individual-centric concept from businesses permissions to use data</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s05"><cite>markLizar:</cite> do we need a term to refer to the capture of consent</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> (with beatriz) the proposed control term ‘record’ is better for that case as it is mentioned in the law and also used by ISO 27560</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s04"><cite>beatriz:</cite> do we need to find ways to connect the controls with legal basis? Similar to what we did in connecting legal basis with data subject rights in the GDPR extension?</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> No conclusion - discuss again next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x046 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 22 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today's continued discussions and other items on the agenda not discussed.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
