<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Call 24-JUN-2020 &ndash; 24 June 2020</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Call 24-JUN-2020</h1>
<h2>24 June 2020</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Jun/0019.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2020/06/24-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>axelpolleres</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">approve minutes of last meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">community is not active / participation is low</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">contributions from Signatu</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>approve minutes of last meeting</h3>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2020/06/10-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2020/<wbr>06/<wbr>10-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x007 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> approved by consensus</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>community is not active / participation is low</h3>
<p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> georg: I can invite from LinkedIn</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> beatriz: my PhD is relevant to the topic, so I am going to be involved, also interested in working on Primer</p>
<p id=x013 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> georg: it is also a difficult time due to the COVID-19 situation, so we should keep the community going</p>
<p id=x014 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> axelpolleres: we could have an entry point on the intro/first page geared for contributor and invitors, links to existing projects and works that use DPV(CG), and updates.</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> axelpolleres: we could have testimonials from adopters</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>I had lost connection...<br>
<span id=x017>… back</span></p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> harsh: we need to update timeline and deliverables on the main page</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>deliverables:</cite> 1) update of vocab (e.g. purpose categories 2) primer</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> axelpolleres: deliverable would be primer</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> axelpolleres: summary presentation given at end of SPECIAL talking about timeline, and testimonials, will send it</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>contributions from Signatu</h3>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> georg: have contributed concepts from Article 13,14; transfer legal basis, and ISO 29184</p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> georg: mapping between 29184 and DPV (in-progress)</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> harsh: we could have a ISO_pref_label for DPV terms to map them to ISO</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>deliverables:</cite> Keep in touch about TRAPEZE with Piero<br>
<span id=x030>… biweekly meetings not really joined by many, is there a better day? Harsh thinks about either (a) polling for another day or (b) personally getting in touch (c) topicwise calls</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
