<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call 02-SEP-2020 &ndash; 02 September 2020</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call 02-SEP-2020</h1>
<h2>02 September 2020</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Sep/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2020/09/02-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AxelPolleres, Beatriz, Georg, GeorgLioudakis, harsh, Timo</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Updating group's page and objectives</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Adding concepts to DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">ISSUES / ACTIONS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Use-cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">open for discussion</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Updating group's page and objectives</h3>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> create a wiki page, share on mailing list for comments, approve on calls</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> change 'plan to' to 'missing and doing objectives' on an evolving and continous basis</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgeLioudakis:</cite> another thing of interest is about defining constraints on top of data model</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgeLioudakis:</cite> constraints related to e.g. access control associated with purpose</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> You should send this on to the mailing list for discussion or file it as an use-case on GitHub</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Adding concepts to DPV</h3>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> We have some open questions to answer regarding semantics (e.g. OWL-DL vs OWL-Full) and how the DPV should be used.</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> Piero would be the best person to answer that since the DPV is based on the model derived from SPECIAL in the F2F workshop</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>AxelPolleres:</cite> We can have a larger meeting call (in lieu of F2F) to discuss this and have the next iteration of the ontology</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Okay, I will propose Nov-Dec as potential time for a 'workshop' to the mailing list</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>ISSUES / ACTIONS</h3>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> If everyone could go over the open issues and actions and close old ones as well as see which ones need more attention</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Use-cases</h3>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Contribute use-cases (broad, narrow, specific -- any) to help guide the objectives of the group as well as development of DPV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>open for discussion</h3>
<p id=x032 class="phone s04"><cite>GeorgLioudakis:</cite> If there is time available in the next call, I can present work on done on the BPR4GDPR project which is of relevance to this group<br>
<span id=x033>… Georg will share abstract and solicit interest on the mailing list</span></p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> anybody having the dialout info for me? I haven't put it in my calendar</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>GeorgLioudakis:</cite> Hi Rigo, we were using a link on Jitsi (the call has ended now)<br>
<span id=x042>… Dialing info was on Agenda <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Sep/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2020Sep/<wbr>0000.html</a></span></p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> ah, ok, just to note that I have people and use cases in the pipeline to get more support</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s04"><cite>GeorgLioudakis:</cite> It would be very helpful to have those, thanks!</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
