<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 01 JUN 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>01 JUN 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022May/0009.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/06/01-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>georg, harsh, julian, mark, nishad, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>beatriz</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Proposed technology concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Other proposals open for commenting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">TPAC</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Proposed technology concepts</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>List of structured concepts shared on mailing list - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022May/0007.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2022May/<wbr>0007.html</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>We will wait for comments/feedback and decide on these next week.</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>Mark says that ID and Surveillance should be the same concept, harsh disagrees and asks for clarification/justification to be shared on mailing list in reply to the proposal.</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>nishad asks about modelling authentication and whether this would be under ID or security, harsh says this should be under security (mirroring structure of tech/org measures)</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>The proposed concepts are not complete, but provide a top-concept or structure for the taxonomy. Authentication, authorisation, specific identification mechanisms and so on will be modelled under (subclasses) of these concepts, and combined where necessary.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Other proposals open for commenting</h3>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Proposal for DPIA - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022May/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2022May/<wbr>0003.html</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Proposal for Rights - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022May/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2022May/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>Proposal for Rules - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022May/0010.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2022May/<wbr>0010.html</a></p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>We will discuss this alongisde the proposal for technology starting next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x021 class=summary>In 1 week, 08 JUN WED 14:00 CEST</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>TPAC</h3>
<p id=x023 class=summary>ODRL WG will have a meeting at TPAC, and DPVCG has been invited to attend with DPV collaboration as part of the agenda</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>(thanks for Victor)</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>Those interested should contact harsh</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>TPAC 2022 will be a hybrid meeting - <a href="https://www.w3.org/blog/news/archives/9503">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>blog/<wbr>news/<wbr>archives/<wbr>9503</a></p>
<p id=x027 class=summary>It will take place 12-16 September 2022</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
