<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 17 AUG 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>17 AUG 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0/20230817T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/08/17-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaram, harsh, iainHenderson, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georg</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Risk Assessment concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV v1.1</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV repo restructuring</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> gb has joined #dpvcg</p>
<p id=x004 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-08-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-08-17</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>Good news item - ISO/IEC TS 27560 has been published, which includes an example expressed using DPV and a reference to DPV in Annex A. See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Aug/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Aug/<wbr>0002.html</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Risk Assessment concepts</h3>
<p id=x015 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">Issue 104</a></strong> Re-evaluate Risk Assessment concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [application] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>The risk assessment concepts have been discussed between harsh, delaram, rob, and julio, and they have consensus. See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Aug/0006.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Aug/<wbr>0006.html</a></p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>Pending questions are a minor topic regarding the distinction between actual and potential consequences of an incident, with the context of a data breach incident and reporting on its potential consequences.</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a>: The risk assessment concepts will be discussed for acceptance in the next meeting, scheduled for AUG-24</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104#issuecomment-1683021622">comment</a></p>
<p id=x021 class=summary>The Risk Management concepts will be an extension of these concepts, and will provide management related processes such as treatments and identification. See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong> Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a>: the risk assessment concepts in <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a> are likely to be accepted - this work should be modified to build on them.</p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74#issuecomment-1683023726">comment</a></p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>The guide for data breach (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">#103</a>) and adding incident reporting concepts (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">#100</a>) will also be developed based on these risk assessment concepts.</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">Issue 103</a></strong> Guide for Data Breach (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [concepts] [todo] [application]</p>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">Issue 100</a></strong> Proposal to add (security) Incident Reporting concepts (by coolharsh55) [scope] [concepts]</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">#103</a>: the risk assessment concepts in <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a> are likely to be accepted - this work should be modified to build on them.</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103#issuecomment-1683025387">comment</a></p>
<p id=x030 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">#100</a>:  the risk assessment concepts in <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a> are likely to be accepted - this work should be modified to build on them.</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100#issuecomment-1683025469">comment</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV v1.1</h3>
<p id=x033 class=summary>Issues tagged to be completed for DPV v1.1 are mentioned in the agenda.</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary>Associating legal bases with rights (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">#49</a>) - will be accepted.</p>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">Issue 49</a></strong> Provide association and applicability between GDPR legal bases and rights (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [concepts] [todo] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary>Pending question to be discussed in the next meeting is whether we model the concepts for rights implementations e.g. data portability has an implementation of providing a copy of data.</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary>Iain mentioned this is what P7012 considers as a &quot;duty&quot; attached to the right. In DPV, we agreed earlier not to model duties and obligations, and instead leave it to ODRL and other languages. However, modelling the concepts for processes and associating them with legal bases would be in scope.</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">#49</a>: this was discussed in today's meeting, and the association between legal bases and rights is to be accepted. The proposal to model rights implementation processes is to be discussed in the next meeting.</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49#issuecomment-1683030134">comment</a></p>
<p id=x040 class=summary>The issue about modelling locations using personal data (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73">#73</a>) will be resolved.</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73">Issue 73</a></strong> Extend DPV-PD with missing Location concepts (by besteves4) [concepts] [review]</p>
<p id=x042 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73">#73</a>: this issue was discussed in today's meeting and will be resolved/closed as it is outside the scope of the current work to provide properties for each personal data category.</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73#issuecomment-1683033490">comment</a></p>
<p id=x044 class=summary>Updating concepts for Scoring and Decision to cover overlap as per the CJEU case (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87">#87</a>) - this is in scope, and the modelling of concepts will be accepted.</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87">Issue 87</a></strong> Update concepts for Scoring and Decision to cover overlap (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87">#87</a>: this was discussed in today's meeting with no objections to go ahead and implement it.</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87#issuecomment-1683035156">comment</a></p>
<p id=x048 class=summary>Indicating PII and Identifying personal data (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">#14</a>) - this was discussed and agreed upon. The concepts will be accepted in the next meeting.</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">Issue 14</a></strong> Indicating PII i.e. Personally Identifiable data category or categories in combination (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [question] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">#14</a>: this was discussed in today's meeting and accepted as concepts to indicate identifying with distinction between explicit and indirect. These will be accepted in the next meeting.</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14#issuecomment-1683036224">comment</a></p>
<p id=x052 class=summary> Express 'sensitivity' of data (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">#11</a>) - these have been accepted in principle, to be discussed further if requested. Otherwise they will move to accepted.</p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">Issue 11</a></strong> Express 'sensitivity' of data (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [question] [review]</p>
<p id=x054 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">#11</a>: this was discussed in today's meeting as being acceptable, but further discussion will be undertaken to assess whether to accept them.</p>
<p id=x055 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11#issuecomment-1683037263">comment</a></p>
<p id=x056 class=summary>Assessment concepts (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">#96</a>) that include impact assessments and compliance assessments. Discussion had consensus on accepting the concepts.</p>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">Issue 96</a></strong> Add assessment relations and concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x058 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">#96</a> - discussed these concepts today with a consensus towards acceptance. These will be accepted in the next meeting.</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96#issuecomment-1683038027">comment</a></p>
<p id=x060 class=summary>Aligning with EU vocabularies (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">#46</a>) - this issue was discussed with consensus to drop alignment with EUVOC and continue with DPV-LEGAL modelling of jurisdictions and other information, and to ask for help in aligning it with other vocabularies.</p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">Issue 46</a></strong> Use/Align with EU location vocabularies (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [scope] [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x062 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">#46</a>: this was discussed in today's meeting with consensus to drop alignment with EUVOC and continue with DPV-LEGAL modelling of jurisdictions and other information, and to ask for help in aligning it with other vocabularies. The issue will remain open for discussion and continued contribution.</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46#issuecomment-1683041354">comment</a></p>
<p id=x064 class=summary>Representing Main Establishment and Lead SA as a concept (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">#93</a>) - this was agreed to be added to GDPR.</p>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">Issue 93</a></strong> Representing Main Establishment and Lead SA as a concept (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x066 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">#93</a> - this was discussed in today's meeting and agreed to be added to GDPR.</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93#issuecomment-1683042013">comment</a></p>
<p id=x068 class=summary>Add information availability concepts (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102">#102</a>) - these concepts were briefly discussed, and are slated for acceptance.</p>
<p id=x069 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102">Issue 102</a></strong> Add information availability concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [review]</p>
<p id=x070 class=summary>Comment <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102">#102</a>: These concepts were discussed in today's meeting, and will be accepted.</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102#issuecomment-1683042764">comment</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV repo restructuring</h3>
<p id=x073 class=summary>See email by harsh - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Aug/0010.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Aug/<wbr>0010.html</a> (and <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">#107</a>)</p>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">Issue 107</a></strong> Restructure repo layout (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x075 class=summary>This is a major change and will be taken along with <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">#99</a> inclusion of non-personal data</p>
<p id=x076 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (by coolharsh55) [scope] [concepts] [question]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x078 class=summary>We will have the next meeting on 24th August 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST</p>
<p id=x079 class=summary>Topics on today's agenda will continue to be on the next agenda, with resolution on accepted concepts given a priority.</p>
<p id=x080 class=summary>gb, bye</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
