<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 21 August 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>21 August 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/08/07-dpvcg-minutes.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/10915096.tUU11HEPGs@nyx"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/08/21-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert, harsh, simonstey</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Eva</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Bert</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>AxelPollleres, simonstey</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Roll call, select scribe, agenda</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Minutes of last call</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Action items</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">how to combine vocabularies</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Roll call, select scribe, agenda</h3>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> any topics missing?</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Minutes of last call</h3>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> hearing no objections</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Action items</h3>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">actions</a></p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-3</p>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/3">action-3</a></strong> Bert Bos to Clarify which github space we can use W3C's github space or if we need something else -- due 2018-08-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> trackbot, close action 3</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Sorry, Bert, I don't understand 'trackbot, close action 3'. Please refer to &lt;<a href="http://www.w3.org/2005/06/tracker/irc">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2005/<wbr>06/<wbr>tracker/<wbr>irc</a>&gt; for help.</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> Bert will create a git repo soon.<br>
<span id=x039>… trackbot, close action3</span></p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Sorry, AxelPollleres, I don't understand 'trackbot, close action3'. Please refer to &lt;<a href="http://www.w3.org/2005/06/tracker/irc">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2005/<wbr>06/<wbr>tracker/<wbr>irc</a>&gt; for help.</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action 6?</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> close action-3</p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-3.</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> close action 3</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-6</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/6">action-6</a></strong> Michael Markevich to Draft something about Opera use case(s) -- due 2018-08-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-7</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/7">action-7</a></strong> Bert Bos to Add some overview of SPECIAL use case(s) -- due 2018-08-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-8</p>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/8">action-8</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Add some more starting point vocabulary stubs -- due 2018-08-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> close action-8</p>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-8.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> close action-8</p>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-8.</p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-9</p>
<p id=x059 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/9">action-9</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Include links to irc and minutes into the agenda next time -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-10</p>
<p id=x062 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/10">action-10</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Organize a call later on 30th after the mydata session or on friday morning to sync with people jooining through the conference.... will contact organizers. -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> on 29th a dinner table for dinner table for &quot;Semantic Interoparability&quot; at Manala restaurant<br>
<span id=x066>… <a href="http://www.manala.fi/?lang=en">http://<wbr>www.manala.fi/?lang=en</a></span></p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> trackbot, comment action-10 we'll have a dinner in the evening before the f2f meeting at mydata; on 29th a dinner table for dinner table for &quot;Semantic Interoparability&quot; at Manala restaurant (<a href="http://www.manala.fi/?lang=en">http://<wbr>www.manala.fi/?lang=en</a>)</p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to action-10 Organize a call later on 30th after the mydata session or on friday morning to sync with people jooining through the conference.... will contact organizers..</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> our session is on 30th in the morning:<br>
<span id=x072>… <a href="https://mydata2018.org/sessions/semantic-interoperability-and-transparency/">https://<wbr>mydata2018.org/<wbr>sessions/<wbr>semantic-interoperability-and-transparency/</a></span><br>
<span id=x073>… on 30th afternoon <a href="https://mydata2018.org/sessions/agenda-setting-for-open-space/">https://<wbr>mydata2018.org/<wbr>sessions/<wbr>agenda-setting-for-open-space/</a></span></p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> AxelPollleres: organizing an openspace session too</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> ... openspace session is after lunch, don't know which session it will be exactly though</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> enough bandwidth given we will try to dial in the group for the open space session,<br>
<span id=x079>… <a href="https://mydata2018.org/programme/">https://<wbr>mydata2018.org/<wbr>programme/</a></span><br>
<span id=x080>… there are 4 open space sessions yet, not yet sure what slot we get.</span></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> axel to talk to Joss about Mydata open space session and maybe try to pre-fix a slot.</p>
<p id=x082 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-16 - Talk to joss about mydata open space session and maybe try to pre-fix a slot. [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-08-28].</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-11</p>
<p id=x084 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/11">action-11</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Reach out to industrial data spaces project (germany) and another austrian big data project (dma). -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-12</p>
<p id=x087 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/12">action-12</a></strong> Simon Steyskal to Look over requirements template -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Template_for_requirements">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Template_for_requirements</a></p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s01"><cite>bert:</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Template_for_requirements">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Template_for_requirements</a></p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s02"><cite>Simon:</cite> the template allows to vote on requirements in between calls.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to try to modify the rquirements teamplate and instantiate it for some of the items on <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies</a></p>
<p id=x095 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-17 - Try to modify the rquirements teamplate and instantiate it for some of the items on <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/use-cases,_requirements,_vocabularies">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>use-cases,_requirements,_vocabularies</a> [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-08-28].</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-13</p>
<p id=x097 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/13">action-13</a></strong> Stefano Bocconi to Propose use case(s) for the decode project -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-14</p>
<p id=x100 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/14">action-14</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Ask hendrik for edition ieee 7012 -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> <a href="https://standards.ieee.org/develop/project/7012.html">https://<wbr>standards.ieee.org/<wbr>develop/<wbr>project/<wbr>7012.html</a></p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> action-15</p>
<p id=x104 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/15">action-15</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to look over use cases template -- due 2018-08-14 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/9412d9d7-2aac-1d3b-f9f1-d0c0799d0369@datenschutzzentrum.de">Eva's e-mail on use case template</a></p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> AxelPollleres: Ben and I will talk about our efforts</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> I sent my suggestions on the use case and on the requirements templates per email - so action done ;)</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Javier to update the use case template wrt. Eva's version</p>
<p id=x110 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Javier'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s03"><cite>Javier:</cite> we probably need first the use cases to discuss more about requirements</p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> we should take the list from the workshop as starting points, see action above.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>how to combine vocabularies</h3>
<p id=x117 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva__ULD_&gt;</cite> I think it might depend heavily on the use cases which kind of taxonomies and vocabularies we need</p>
<p id=x120 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Seems audio isn't working :(</p>
<p id=x121 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> But I agree with Axel</p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> maybe try typing? ☺</p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> My question was: in light of what we discussed, should we start listing concepts and properties from listed vocabularies we might find interesting</p>
<p id=x126 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> Can we agree that our goal is to work within one namespace and connect to it, instead of creating a coglomerate of voabularies?</p>
<p id=x130 class="phone s02"><cite>simon:</cite> I don't think we should invent an own use case, if we have one vocab that covers all.<br>
<span id=x131>… we maybe only need a &quot;best practices&quot; document.</span><br>
<span id=x132>… in ORDL you can specify consent, but not it's components.</span></p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> I think we could have a JSON-LD profile that describes the whole policies.<br>
<span id=x137>… and collect our core terms.</span><br>
<span id=x138>… single namespace we mape to or JSON-LD profile combining different namespaces, is not so relevant in the end, but coherend presentation of the terms we support and need.</span></p>
<p id=x140 class="phone s03"><cite>Javier:</cite> Are we closing the use cases or are we calling for external use cases?<br>
<span id=x141>… so far they seem close to a couple of European projects.</span></p>
<p id=x142 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Perhaps we could have a cut-off line for use-cases, after which we turn those collected use-cases into requirements?</p>
<p id=x143 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> we need more use cases and should spread the word as far as we can.</p>
<p id=x144 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Issue would be a good idea</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> timeline/schedule, when should we stop collecting additional use cases?</p>
<p id=x146 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-1 - Timeline/schedule, when should we stop collecting additional use cases?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/1/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>1/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> ISSUE-1: postponed until after Mydata</p>
<p id=x148 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-1 Timeline/schedule, when should we stop collecting additional use cases?.</p>
<p id=x149 class="phone s04"><cite>Axel:</cite> PROPOSED: next call 4 september, same time</p>
<p id=x150 class="phone s05"><cite>+1:</cite> -)</p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x152 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> next call 4 september, same time.</p>
<p id=x154 class="phone s05"><cite>+1:</cite> adjourned.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">axel to talk to Joss about Mydata open space session and maybe try to pre-fix a slot.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to try to modify the rquirements teamplate and instantiate it for some of the items on https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Javier to update the use case template wrt. Eva's version</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">next call 4 september, same time.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">timeline/schedule, when should we stop collecting additional use cases?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
