<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 APR 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 APR 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Apr/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/04/06-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg, harsh, julian, mark, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPV v0.5 published</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Data Subject Categories</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Technologies</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPV Future</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPV v0.5 published</h3>
<p id=x012 class=summary><a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/">DPV link</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>This version contains concepts accepted until 02 APR</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>It also contains the DPV-LEGAL extension <a href="https://www.w3id.org/dpv/dpv-legal">that provides locations as jurisdictions, along with laws and authorities, and models EU-EEA memberships and EU Adequacy decisions</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Data Subject Categories</h3>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Concepts accepted as subclasses of <code>DataSubject</code> → <code>Patient</code>, <code>Employee</code>, <code>Student</code>, <code>Citizen</code>, <code>NonCitizen</code>, <code>Immigrant</code>, <code>Tourist</code>, <code>Customer</code>, <code>Consumer</code>, <code>User</code>, <code>JobApplicant</code>, <code>Visitor</code>, <code>Member</code>, <code>Applicant</code>, <code>Subscriber</code>, <code>Client</code>, <code>Participant</code></p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Concepts discussed and rejected as subclasses of <code>DataSubject</code> → <code>Trainees</code>, <code>ServiceUser</code>, <code>WebsiteUser</code>, <code>WebsiteVisitor</code></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> How to express vulnerability of VulnerableDataSubject?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> the vulnerability can be associated using a property e.g. <code>hasVulnerability</code> but this is contextual because that vulnerability can only exist in specific use-cases. Additionally, every data subject category has an associated property e.g. <u>Consumer</u> has <code>hasProvider</code> as the relation, or <u>Employee</u> has <code>hasEmployer</code></p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> The concepts for vulnerability i.e. properties and specific types of vulnerabilities can be provided as a proposal, and we may decide to put them in an extension<br>
<span id=x022>… Discussion on <u>Customer</u> vs <u>Consumer</u> differences took place, with agreement that they are distinct concepts (i.e. not subclasses of either). Discussion on <u>Customer</u> also being a business-to-business relationship took place, with agreement that the context of its use within DPV as a data subject category is clear.</span></p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> The <u>Customer</u> separation for Data Subject and Organisation type could be handled in a similar manner as that of Legal Roles providing a specific list in Entities taxonomy</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Yes, we could add <code>CustomerOrganisation</code> as a category in the Organisation type list, but B2B concepts are not in scope for DPV<br>
<span id=x026>… Discussion on similarities between <u>User</u>, <u>Consumer</u>, and <u>Subscriber</u> took place with agreement that they are distinct.</span></p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>mark:</cite> Raised an issue with the use of the word &quot;user&quot; as a term<br>
<span id=x031>… (Due to poor audio connection, the discussion did not complete. Mark is invited to send the objection to the mailing list for discussion)</span><br>
<span id=x032>… Discussion on <u>ServiceUser</u> being the covered by <u>User</u>, and <u>WebsiteUser</u> also similarly being covered by <u>User</u> (as well as <u>WebsiteVisitor</u> being covered by <u>Visitor</u>) took place. The agreement to not involve these was reached with the notion that specifying <u>user</u> in some context e.g. personal data handling for a service is sufficient to indicate it refers to users of that service.</span><br>
<span id=x033>… If there is a need to denote specific users or visitors e.g. of a specific service or a website, then the adopter is required to subclass/instantiate these concepts as necessary.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Technologies</h3>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>mark:</cite> We intend to provide an opinionated list by end of April, with a good coverage of the top-level terms. This will be the first version, and iterations can continue to expand it.<br>
<span id=x037>… Proposals for more concepts are invited.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DPV Future</h3>
<p id=x049 class="phone s03"><cite>mark:</cite> The existing wiki page <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/DPV_future">specifies topics we've decided for DPV v1 to include</a><br>
<span id=x050>… Discussion took place on topics and involvement of personnel.</span><br>
<span id=x051>… Harsh is involved in ROPA related concepts along with Paul and Rob, and will be presenting work next week / soon.</span><br>
<span id=x052>… Harsh is involved in ISO/IEC 27560 consent record and will be presenting a proposal on adding concepts to DPV based on it soon.</span><br>
<span id=x053>… Harsh and Georg have interest in providing risk assessment and management concepts in general</span><br>
<span id=x054>… Harsh and Georg will be working on DPIA related concepts based on risk assessment and core requirements</span><br>
<span id=x055>… Georg and Harsh are interested in adding Data Breach concepts</span><br>
<span id=x056>… Beatriz and Harsh are interested in working on creating SHACL shapes for providing guidelines on DPV use</span><br>
<span id=x057>… Beatriz raised the requirement to have mappings with other vocabularies, especially ODRL</span><br>
<span id=x058>… Georg mentioned exercising Rights e.g. information to be provided for Subject Access Request, or exercising them using specific PDH instances</span><br>
<span id=x059>… Georg mentioned use of DPV in Controller-Processor or Processor-Processor or Controller-Controller agreements as specifying activities to be conducted</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
