<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 10 APR 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>10 APR 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240410T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaram, georg, harsh, paul, steveHickman, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">w3id urls</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">ISWC resource paper</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">dpvcg.org</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">AI and AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-04-10">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-04-10</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>w3id urls</h3>
<p id=x010 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/133">Issue 133</a></strong> w3id update for dpv2 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> the issues with the urls have been fixed and the changes are live, see <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/status-check">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>status-check</a> ; the existing 5 errors are related to either pages not currently existing (e.g. AI Act) or mistakes in the urls to check (response is 200 success). This will be updated to fix these issues.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>ISWC resource paper</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/131">Issue 131</a></strong> DPV Resource Paper (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> not much work done here, with beatriz - do we think this is feasible and doable for the week ahead?</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> doing citation analysis, depends on whether we can write the paper</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I have materials from funding proposals etc. - I can put these together for the paper, so yes, for writing we should be okay</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> would be good to have support for writing and citation analysis etc. - please contact me or beatriz</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we're presenting DPV to the EU Commission next week, preparing for that includes polishing off things a bit (I've been slow on doing the technical stuff) - so that will also help with the paper</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>dpvcg.org</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/132">Issue 132</a></strong> Landing page for DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> obtained the domain</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> we should put materials on the website for each concept like a guideline to show how the DPVCG is being used</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> agreed, but this is difficult to do in the short term for next week's meeting</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> the EU COM is going to be making decisions in Q4 2024 on this - so should be done to showcase what can be done</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> this includes showing what is possible e.g. automated contracts, work on the actual data rather than just the data</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for smart contracts or digital contracts, the existing standard is ODRL and we've been conscious about not overlapping with it so as to support existing standards. The new v3 is under development, beatriz would know about how to relate both dpv and odrl</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> ODRL v3 won't have anything specific for laws, but the good part is that there will be profiles and mechanisms to support such uses through a &quot;ODRL Community Vocabulary&quot;</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we can provide concepts such as extensions to Policy for ConsentRequest, ConsentOffer, ConsentAgreement ;; beatriz please send email on how to contribute this </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>AI and AI Act</h3>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">Issue 126</a></strong>  AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> no updates</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> going through spreadsheet - separated tabs to create the HTML (will do it later today)</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> IntendedPurpose - how to model this? Parent is listed dpv:Purpose</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> this is not correct - it doesn't fit the dpv:Purpose description as it is broader than the notion of purpose</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> so this would be analogous to dpv:Process - my only concern is that people will see 'purpose' in IntendedPurpose and use dpv:hasPurpose with it. So we should also provide aiact:hasIntendedPurpose with it which is a sub-property of dpv:hasProcess and explicitly put in the definition that it is separate from dpv:Purpose</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary> discussion on this topic</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> conclusion of the discussion is that IntendedPurpose is different from dpv:Purpose as it is broader</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> IntendedPurpose with additional details with the instance as the subject e.g. IntendedPurpose hasContext SomeDetails</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> see examples of the two approaches as - 1) when we have parent as dpv:Purpose</p>
<pre id=x044 class=summary>
:X a aiact:IntendedPurpose . # subclass of dpv:Purpose
    skos:broader ex:ProviderIntendedPurpose ;
    dpv:hasPurpose &quot;X&quot; ; ‚Üê- can't do purpose of purpose
    dpv:hasContext &quot;X&quot;;
    dpv:hasRule &quot;X&quot;;
    dpv:hasDocumentation &quot;X&quot; .
</pre>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> and 2) when we have parent as dpv:Process</p>
<pre id=x053 class=summary>
:X a aiact:IntendedPurpose ;  # subclass of dpv:Process
    skos:broader ex:ProviderIntendedPurpose ;
    dpv:hasPurpose &quot;X&quot; ;
    dpv:hasContext &quot;X&quot;;
    dpv:hasRule &quot;X&quot;;
    dpv:hasDocumentation &quot;X&quot; .
</pre>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For extending the process or purpose, we can add a usage note as: &quot;This concept is describing a group of concepts similar to how dpv:Process can combine Purpose, Personal Data, Legal Basis, Context, etc. To represent these contextual information for describing the 'intent' of the purpose, additional concepts should be associated with an instance using appropriate relations. For example, an instance of aiact:IntendedPurpose is further described using: dpv:hasDocument to point to the technical documentation or manual.&quot;</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x065 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 17 April 15:00 WEST / 16:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
