<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 10 MAR 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>10 MAR 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Mar/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/03/10-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>MarkLizar</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Moving DPV(CG) repos to Github/W3C</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Proposal to add concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Consent Community Group</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Moving DPV(CG) repos to Github/W3C</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>conversation about moving DPV specs to w3c</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>note:</cite> harsh and beatriz working on issues migration → to decide if adding directly to w3c repo</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Proposal to add concepts</h3>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>note:</cite> Legal bases: we add categories as sub-classes for LegalBasis e.g. legitimate interest, consent, law<br>
<span id=x016>… For existing DPV-GDPR, these are instances of LegalBasis, but we redefine them as per their category e.g. Art.4-x as instance of Consent as subclasses of LegalBasis</span></p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> is Consent currently defined as a standalone concept, we need to integrate this as well<br>
<span id=x021>… Later, we will also need to think about explicit consent, different requirements for consent</span><br>
<span id=x022>… Also, we also need to think about properties for other legal basis e.g. legitimate interest → what was it? e.g. contract → what document? who signed it / are parties?</span><br>
<span id=x023>… Technologies - databases, etc. - add and associate with existing concepts, e.g. data storage, transfer, encryption</span></p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>paulryan:</cite> I can share document specifying tech&amp;org measures to help with this discussion</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> we can utilise the same abstraction/pattern as risk i.e. hasRisk<br>
<span id=x027>… We can apply this as a 'test' to the document to be shared by paul</span></p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s04"><cite>rana:</cite> companies need to specify technologies in a DPIA (e.g.), and they need to associate technologies with some kind of risk</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s05"><cite>paulryanryan:</cite> Vendors also ask/specify ISO certifications, anti-virus, etc. And the risk assessment considers these and new technologies.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s06"><cite>Georg:</cite> DPAs require information about implementation, and also measures e.g. privacy by design</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>paulryan:</cite> if there are existing vocabularies, how to use/associate these?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> we can point to those, but we need to provide the 'glue' to connect DPV concepts to those e.g. high-level concepts and relationships<br>
<span id=x037>… To add: consent fields (generic: see consent receipt and GDPR consent  record requirements)</span></p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> I'm interested to work on this</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s06"><cite>georg:</cite> I'm interested regarding this as well</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s08"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> we have the project Pae:CG Privacy as Expected Consent Gateway <a href="https://privacy-as-expected.org/">https://<wbr>privacy-as-expected.org/</a> working on newer version of consent record/receipt which we intend to submit back to DPVCG</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s08"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> At Kantara, ANCR we intend to standardise this and submit it back to ISO 27560 for standardisation internationally</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> ISO 29184 mentions machine-readable records - which is what the DPV could be useful to</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Consent Community Group</h3>
<p id=x048 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/consent/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>consent/</a><br>
<span id=x049>… Welcome to join and work on specifics for consent</span><br>
<span id=x050>… Slight overlap with DPVCG regarding semantics and concepts, but the scope of CONSENT-CG is much broader and involves everything to do with consent</span><br>
<span id=x051>… We can certainly collaborate and sync relevant work</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x053 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> In 2 weeks, MAR-24 13:00 WET / 14:00 CET</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
