<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG ftf day 2 &ndash; 05 April 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG ftf day 2</h1>
<h2>05 April 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/04/04-dpvcg-minutes.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/04/05-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>axelpolleres, Bert, Bud, Harsh, Javier, Mark, Ramisa, Simon</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Bert Bos</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>Axelpolleres, harsh, simonstey</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">session: 11:15-12:45 - processing categories</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Processing (continued)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">process for new terms and feedback</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">timeline</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">ISSUES</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/04/04-dpvcg-minutes.html#x22">agenda for today (from yesterday's minutes)</a></p>
<p id=x004 class=summary>* session1 9:30-11:00 -  consent</p>
<p id=x005 class=summary>* session: 11:15-12:45 - processing categories</p>
<p id=x006 class=summary>----- After lunch: ----</p>
<p id=x007 class=summary>* how to wrap up? discuss process for new terms and feedback</p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>* timeline</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>**  finish drafts (who, by when?)</p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>**  review (who, by when?)</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>**  publish (when?)</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>**  plan advertisement</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>**  plan feedback cycles</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>* wrap up ISSUES (and ACTIONS) and discuss how we include them in the first draft, decide editors, etc.</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> list agenda</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> what's on the agenda?</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/edit#gid=882529315">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/<wbr>edit#gid=882529315</a></p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> all properties in red still under discussion</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> biggest issue is the right to withdraw.<br>
<span id=x034>… ontology should provide a propery to state how to withdraw consent</span></p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> that's the mininmum, there;s no prior art for this.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>axel:</cite> wouldn't it always be possible in writing to withdraw?</p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> watch out, consent withdrawl opens a can of worms as you can't just withdraw anytime</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> law says it should be as easy as giving consent</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> so the taxonomy should mention withdrawl and have the ability to point to something (URI)</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> keep it minimal... we should keep it out of scope to fill the possible actions to withdraw consent in an own taxonomy for now, but we should have an attribute.</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> I agree with what Rigo said, that's what we're trying to do in the spreadsheet currently.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> consent receipt would be ideal, but consent receipt has privacy information in it... some interaction with authentication, no one has been able to do consent receipts properly yet<br>
<span id=x044>… consent receipts are future work/innovation.</span></p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> does consent need reconciliation with other legal bases?</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>Bud:</cite> fulfillment of conteact may be similar, but not really</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Contract can have expiry</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> +1 to Bud, you need a legal reason to process without consent</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> contract: if the main performances required by the contract are done (payment) the reason for processing expires, but this is Art. 6 (1) b</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> we are discussing 6 (1)a and there I can't imagine a case where you still would need to process. Those personalization things can just be withdrawn</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>Bud:</cite> discussion on whether datasubject, controller, purpose, processing are part of consent, or consent is part of personal data handling....</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s03"><cite>axel:</cite> can be both, yes?<br>
<span id=x058>… so we need to modify the domain of  hasDataSubject</span><br>
<span id=x059>… hasDataController</span><br>
<span id=x060>… hasPurpose</span><br>
<span id=x061>… hasProcessing</span><br>
<span id=x062>… hasPersonalData to the union of Consent and PesonalDataHandling?</span></p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> could we call it user rights?<br>
<span id=x066>… the consent might be the last point for the data subject to convey this information to the data controller</span></p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> to me, consent is part of personal data (SPECIAL annotation model) and it affects the properties of that data</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> legally one has to state that the data subject has the right to withdraw<br>
<span id=x072>… otherwise it's not valid</span><br>
<span id=x073>… in the moment the processing starts, you have to provide the data subject rights</span><br>
<span id=x074>… s</span></p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s05"><cite>elmar:</cite> can you actually shift the responsibility of demonstrating consent</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s06"><cite>rigo:</cite> IF consent is a property of data and consent is removed, than the property is just deleted from the data (link/annotation destroyed)<br>
<span id=x079>… imo &quot;withdrawl&quot; is an algo, not a data property</span></p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> if you can process &quot;pseudoanonym.&quot; then you need some form of ID for the data subject</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I don't understand why we have to explicitly put e.g. the right to rectify within the consent<br>
<span id=x083>… imo that doesnt belong to the consent but other legal basis</span></p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> +1 to axelpolleres</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> consent can appear in different places</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> the rights listing should go in the privacy policy</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> how do we capture the legal context under which consent was given?</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> I think you should think things as &quot;what can be done with the data&quot; instead of thinking &quot;how can I represent rights of GDPR&quot;. Because later, the algos will need data properties, not understand GDPR</p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> the privacy policy should have the rights notices<br>
<span id=x091>… +1 to rigo</span></p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> collection method could be upgraded to &quot;context&quot;<br>
<span id=x094>… collection method → how consent was given</span></p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> does this matter?</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> for audit it may matter, for the decision whether to process or not, it doesn't</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s08"><cite>Bert:</cite> do we agree that all the &quot;right...&quot; terms are not needed?</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> it was part of the original vocab.</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> in order to be compliant with ISO 29100, you have a lot of little requirements regarding presenting of notice<br>
<span id=x102>… the notice capture is not described by many groups so far</span></p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> bbl</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> what's the difference between expiry/expiryCondition</p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> why do we have multiple expiry properties?</p>
<p id=x108 class="phone s09"><cite>simonstey:</cite> why not combine it into just one property?</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> how do we describe such a condition?</p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> To separate the expiry based on temporal and conditions , we have a common superproperty (hasExpiry) and specialisations for temporal (hasExpiryAtTime) and condition (hasExpiryCondition)</p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> in the UK there's always a 2year consent renewal period<br>
<span id=x113>… which they updated to 3 months</span></p>
<p id=x114 class="phone s09"><cite>simonstey:</cite> do they have to adhere to the 3months?</p>
<p id=x115 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> no.. but if they want to get certified, then yes</p>
<p id=x117 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> there are a lot of controversies wrt. &quot;on behalf&quot;<br>
<span id=x118>… changed to &quot;delegated&quot;</span></p>
<p id=x119 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> can we assume that it's the data subject if it's not there?</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s09"><cite>simonstey:</cite> OWA vs CWA</p>
<p id=x121 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> is both withdrawal and provision be delegated?</p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> withdrawal can be</p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> well a child cannot delegate<br>
<span id=x126>… if a child is turning 16 after the parents gave consent, it could withdraw it</span><br>
<span id=x127>… so you have to distinguish</span></p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> authority captures why one was able to give consent on ones behalf</p>
<p id=x129 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> e.g. John -- parent ⟶ Jane</p>
<p id=x130 class="phone s09"><cite>simonstey:</cite> one possible solution would be to add 2 additional properties one for withdrawal and one for provision that captures this</p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> consent has to be given by one person only (according to a law professor I asked)</p>
<p id=x132 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> in the context of this specific use-case we are covering</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Otherwise, legally, consent could be asked from multiple persons e.g. from both parents for a child</p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> next point, why do we need all those terms with &quot;rights&quot;</p>
<p id=x135 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> you dont need to list them all</p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> if this is used for documenting, if I'm documenting the provision method it should also contain the information on how this was done</p>
<p id=x138 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> the GDPR says explicitly the subject has to be informed<br>
<span id=x139>… which justifies a separate field</span></p>
<p id=x140 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> isnt this covered by provision method already?</p>
<p id=x142 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I thought this was only about &quot;in text,..&quot; etc.<br>
<span id=x143>… [discussing consent notice, etc.]</span></p>
<p id=x146 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I put some description in the description<br>
<span id=x147>… The actual notice that the Data Subject received to consent to, either a text or link to a document, which should be usable to decide whether the form or consent was compliant to legislation, e.g. documenting how the user has been informed about rights and omplications (e.g. right to data portabilityright to recitffyright to erasureright to restrict processingright to objectrights regarding automated decision making or profilingprocessorsthird part[CUT]</span><br>
<span id=x148>… or outside-EEA transfers,profiling,automated decision-making,privacy-policy (mark))</span></p>
<p id=x149 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> one has to document also e.g., whether checkboxes were prechecked or similar</p>
<p id=x151 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I think we could now argue for another full hour on how to structure such a notice..<br>
<span id=x152>… for now we could raise an issue saying consent notice could be further structured</span></p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Do we need to further structure consent notice?</p>
<p id=x154 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-16 - Do we need to further structure consent notice?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/16/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>16/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x158 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> I think we need a field indicating whether it's regular/explicit consent<br>
<span id=x159>… in special cases the GDPR requires explicit consent</span><br>
<span id=x160>… &quot;not explicit&quot; doesn't have a name in the GDPR</span></p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> rigo explicitly said there's no &quot;regular&quot; consent</p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> we could have also only a boolean field indicating whether consent is explicit or not<br>
<span id=x165>… if explicit yes, then this indicates certain requirements</span><br>
<span id=x166>… article 22 2c → explicit consent</span></p>
<p id=x167 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> all parts of article 13/14 should be part of the notice, right?</p>
<p id=x168 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> just because the GDPR doesn't call for a processor, doesn't mean we should not provide means for stating them</p>
<p id=x170 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> we have now all properties of the personal data handling despite hasRecipient<br>
<span id=x171>… should we add this too?</span></p>
<p id=x172 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> processor/3rdparty/... are all recipients</p>
<p id=x173 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> the only thing we haven't discussed yet are bundles/groups</p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> in the GDPR special categories are listed explicitly</p>
<p id=x175 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> can we now action someone to wrap this all up ?</p>
<p id=x176 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> it's always the consent to personal data handling</p>
<p id=x177 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> well we have a property there called &quot;storage&quot;</p>
<p id=x178 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> yeah.. but this is already covered by technical/organizational measures</p>
<p id=x181 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> in the gdpr there are only a couple of mentions of &quot;storage&quot;<br>
<span id=x182>… where it's usually about storage period</span><br>
<span id=x183>… [axel writing a description on gsheets]</span></p>
<p id=x184 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> &quot;We replicate all the properties except Legalbasis of personal data handling for consent, to declare what kinds of personal data handling are consented to&quot;</p>
<p id=x185 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> where's the field for internationaltransfer?</p>
<p id=x186 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> in the notice</p>
<p id=x187 class="phone s02"><cite>mark:</cite> I don't think notice doesnt cover international transfer</p>
<p id=x189 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> maybe you could add a remark saying that article 13 details all the things one has to notify about<br>
<span id=x190>… issue-16</span></p>
<p id=x191 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/16">issue-16</a></strong> Do we need to further structure consent notice? -- raised</p>
<p id=x194 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> the green ones are for v1<br>
<span id=x195>… BREAK for 15min</span></p>
<p id=x196 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> agreement: green ones in the spreadsheet are version 1.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>session: 11:15-12:45 - processing categories</h3>
<p id=x201 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Simon: I don't like just listing out actions for processing e.g. what's the difference between erase and destroy and delete</p>
<p id=x202 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/edit">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/<wbr>edit</a></p>
<p id=x203 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Simon: We listed out categories such as scoring (in the document)</p>
<p id=x204 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> yes</p>
<p id=x205 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> while simon is speaking</p>
<p id=x206 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Simon: I would prefer a solution that allows describing processing</p>
<p id=x208 class="phone s10"><cite>Simon:</cite> based on the (nature) of processing, it can assist in identifying whether the processing is high risk</p>
<p id=x209 class="phone s10"><cite>Simon:</cite> Processing can involve new technologies/solutions, such as using ML for decisions.</p>
<p id=x210 class="phone s10"><cite>Simon:</cite> We should identify the features or attributes of processing that distinguishes one from another</p>
<p id=x211 class="phone s05"><cite>Elmar:</cite> controllers would want to use more generic descriptions</p>
<p id=x212 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we should derive high level categories of processing, could even be keywords</p>
<p id=x218 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> if your processing has high risk, you have to have a data impact assessment<br>
<span id=x219>… but that's towards the authority</span><br>
<span id=x220>… not towards the data subject</span><br>
<span id=x221>… so e.g. automateddecisionmaking for the purpose of giving a loan</span></p>
<p id=x222 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> the data subject needs to know the purpose but not how it was done</p>
<p id=x225 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> if I infer from your data, your sexual orientation based on your social media data/pictures for the purpose of advertism. or what not<br>
<span id=x226>… do they have to declare that they are inferring stuff?</span><br>
<span id=x227>… imagine you have this machine learning algo that infers sensitive information, where would I have to declare this</span></p>
<p id=x232 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> about the processing, that are very few things one has to tell the data subject<br>
<span id=x233>… towards the regulator you have to do more (supervisor authority)</span><br>
<span id=x234>… they will ask those things when they audit you</span><br>
<span id=x235>… one has to demonstrate compliance with the law</span><br>
<span id=x236>… including measures to keep the residual risks low</span></p>
<p id=x237 class="phone s11"><cite>MarkL:</cite> there's a missing way to explain the scope of processing</p>
<p id=x238 class="phone s11"><cite>MarkL:</cite> these are like attributes for processing</p>
<p id=x239 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> do I need to document which kind of software I use, database, ...?</p>
<p id=x240 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> in my opinion this is outside of the scope</p>
<p id=x241 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> processing⇒ what does a processor do to achieve its purpose?</p>
<p id=x242 class="phone s07"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> personal data==&quot;click behaviour&quot;, purpose==&quot;to sell you something&quot;</p>
<p id=x243 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> starting from highlevel categories we could drill down</p>
<p id=x244 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Check definition of processing A4-2</p>
<p id=x245 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ‘processing’ means any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction;</p>
<p id=x246 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> We should at least cover all of these</p>
<p id=x249 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> collecting/storing/etc. (listed in the spreadsheet)<br>
<span id=x250>… but those are operations rather than categories right?</span><br>
<span id=x251>… also, maybe I'm fine if someone recording me on sundays but not any other day of the week</span></p>
<p id=x252 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> iirc, there are about ~5 things one has to tell the data subject</p>
<p id=x253 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> @simon yes, they are operations - I'm saying out categories should cover all those</p>
<p id=x255 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> should sync with eva/rigo<br>
<span id=x256>… ah yes</span></p>
<p id=x257 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> <strong>* Risk Assessment </strong><strong>   </strong> Evaluation or scoring  <strong> Automated-decision  making  with  legal or similar  significant effect  [Bud: financial effects??]  </strong> Systematic monitoring  <strong> Matching or combining datasets  </strong> processing that involves new technological or organisational solutions  * processing  that  “prevents  data  subjects  from  exercising  a right  or  using  a service  or  a contract”  (Article  22 and  recital 91)</p>
<p id=x258 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=611236">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>newsroom/<wbr>article29/<wbr>item-detail.cfm?item_id=611236</a></p>
<p id=x259 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> p..9</p>
<p id=x260 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> <strong> Evaluation or scoring. </strong> Automated decision-making with legal or similar significant effect. <strong> Systematic monitoring. </strong> Sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature. <strong> Data processed on a large scale. </strong> Matching or combining datasets. <strong> Data concerning vulnerable data subjects. </strong> Innovative use or applying new technological or organisational solutions. * Contexts Preventing data subjects from exercising a right or using a service or contract.</p>
<p id=x261 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> What does the ICO consider likely to result in high risk? The ICO is required by Article 35(4) to publish a list of processing operations that require a DPIA. This list complements and further specifies the criteria referred to in the European guidelines. Some of these operations require a DPIA automatically, and some only when they occur in combination with one of the other items, or any of the criteria in the European Guidelines referred to above:  1. Innov[CUT]</p>
<p id=x263 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> <a href="http://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4109562-20171013-wp248-rev01-Enpdf-Final-Guidelines-DPIA.html">http://<wbr>www.documentcloud.org/<wbr>documents/<wbr>4109562-20171013-wp248-rev01-Enpdf-Final-Guidelines-DPIA.html</a><br>
<span id=x264>… page 9</span></p>
<p id=x265 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> <a href="https://gdpr-info.eu/art-30-gdpr/">https://<wbr>gdpr-info.eu/<wbr>art-30-gdpr/</a></p>
<p id=x266 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=611236">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>newsroom/<wbr>article29/<wbr>item-detail.cfm?item_id=611236</a></p>
<p id=x267 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: suggestion the 9 items there we should provide URIs for, just to be able to provide a handle for them.</p>
<p id=x268 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> yes, for a supervissing authority this is interesting</p>
<p id=x269 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> purpose of our voabulary is essentially to provide not only machine-readeable means for compliance checking,but also a &quot;rooster&quot; for documenting and annoyating texctual policies, and checking whether all relevant parts are there.you</p>
<p id=x270 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> &quot;An example of this is where a bank screens its customers against a credit reference database in order to decide whether to offer them a loan.&quot;</p>
<p id=x271 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> There is another example at the bottom of page 11 that may help clarify this</p>
<p id=x272 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> &quot;Storage for archiving purpose of pseudonymised personal sensitive data concerning vulnerable data subjects of research projects or clinical trials&quot;</p>
<p id=x273 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> In this case, there is no associated &quot;purpose&quot;, but the processing is associated with risk</p>
<p id=x274 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Or does &quot;archiving&quot; fall under legitimate interest of the clinic?</p>
<p id=x275 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Axel: do we leave the ones we have (6 from high-risk) for now?</p>
<p id=x276 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> action-66</p>
<p id=x277 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/66">action-66</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Look into structuring processing categories, ramisa, bud, eva to help/review. -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x282 class="phone s12"><cite>monitoringDrivingBehaviour:</cite> hasProcessingType [<br>
<span id=x283>… :typeProcessing :erasure;</span><br>
<span id=x284>… :isAutomatedDecM true;</span><br>
<span id=x285>… :isSystematicMonitoring true ]</span></p>
<p id=x286 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> From SPECIAL:</p>
<p id=x287 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Aggregate))</p>
<p id=x288 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Analyse))</p>
<p id=x289 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Anonymize))</p>
<p id=x290 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Collect))</p>
<p id=x291 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Copy))</p>
<p id=x292 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Derive))</p>
<p id=x293 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Move))</p>
<p id=x294 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Query))</p>
<p id=x295 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Declaration(Class(svpr:Transfer))</p>
<p id=x296 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: as for processing we name operations as example (for instance  SPECIAL, ODRL, bu do not define an own voabulary/taxonomy in this group.</p>
<p id=x297 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> seems to be agreement...</p>
<p id=x298 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> after lunch 20min max continue on wrapping up Processing, and then proceed the agenda.</p>
<p id=x299 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> [Lunch, back in 1 hour]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Processing (continued)</h3>
<p id=x303 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> e.g Collect rdfs:subClassOf dpv:Processing, odrl:Collect .</p>
<p id=x304 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg/processing/blob/master/processing.ttl">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>processing/<wbr>blob/<wbr>master/<wbr>processing.ttl</a></p>
<p id=x305 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> A4-2 ‘processing’ means any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction;</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> javier to put list of processing types into processing vocab on spreadsheet, merge with SPCIAL terms, add descriptions.</p>
<p id=x307 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-88 - Put list of processing types into processing vocab on spreadsheet, merge with spcial terms, add descriptions. [on Javier D. Fernández - due 2019-04-12].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>process for new terms and feedback</h3>
<p id=x310 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * process for new terms and feedback:</p>
<p id=x311 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * Suggestions for reformulations or additions should be made in the form of pull requests on github via github's issues mechanism ⟶</p>
<p id=x312 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg</a></p>
<p id=x313 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * labels: question, issue, proposal</p>
<p id=x314 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * In regular calls we decide on proposals: &quot;approve&quot;<em>&quot;decline&quot;</em>&quot;downgrade to issue&quot;</p>
<p id=x315 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * biweekly calls, after the first draft is published, we discuss whether we want to switch to monthly calls.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>timeline</h3>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to finish base ontology by next call (within 2 weeks)</p>
<p id=x319 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-89 - Finish base ontology by next call (within 2 weeks) [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=x320 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: We use hash URIs in the namespaces.</p>
<p id=x321 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x322 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: we use RDFS and OWL where needed</p>
<p id=x323 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x324 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1 to both</p>
<p id=x325 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> reformulation of 2nd proposal:</p>
<p id=x326 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: we define the vocabularies lary as an OWL ontology</p>
<p id=x327 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x328 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> We use hash URIs in the namespaces.</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> we define the vocabularies lary as an OWL ontology</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to finish Technical ORganisational measures part in the spreadsheet by next call</p>
<p id=x332 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-90 - Finish technical organisational measures part in the spreadsheet by next call [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=x336 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-90 depends on Fajar providing a version of NACE we can use and on MArk's ACTION-87</p>
<p id=x337 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-87?</p>
<p id=x338 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/87">action-87</a></strong> Mark Lizar to Make a proposal alternatively use gics instead of nace. -- due 2019-04-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fajar to provide his conversion of NACE as RDFS/OWL</p>
<p id=x341 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-91 - Provide his conversion of nace as rdfs/owl [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Elmar to finish Personal Data Categories and transfer what we agreed upon to the spreadsheet.</p>
<p id=x343 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-92 - Finish personal data categories and transfer what we agreed upon to the spreadsheet. [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Ramisa to drive discussion on Recipients, Data Controllers, Data Subjects forward</p>
<p id=x345 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-93 - Drive discussion on recipients, data controllers, data subjects forward [on Roghaiyeh(Ramisa) Gachpaz Hamed - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=x346 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Action-92: change to elmar</p>
<p id=x347 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to Action-92 Finish personal data categories and transfer what we agreed upon to the spreadsheet..</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fajar to finish purposes.</p>
<p id=x349 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-94 - Finish purposes. [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to complete Legal Basis</p>
<p id=x351 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-95 - Complete legal basis [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to consolidate consent part.</p>
<p id=x353 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-96 - Consolidate consent part. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel define a process to get from spreadsheets to spec.</p>
<p id=x355 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-97 - Define a process to get from spreadsheets to spec. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a11 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to define process for feedback in spec document.</p>
<p id=x357 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-98 - Define process for feedback in spec document. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=x358 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Next TelCo April 23rd, Bert chairs.</p>
<p id=x359 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> goal for next telco - all parts finished</p>
<p id=x360 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> (ensure spreadsheet is complete)</p>
<p id=x361 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Telco May 7th ⟶ goal is to have a first full document for review, and including the ISSUES we have postponed or still rais on 23rd.</p>
<p id=x362 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> <a href="https://annualconference.eema.org">https://<wbr>annualconference.eema.org</a></p>
<p id=x363 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Telco: Internal reviews by 21st May</p>
<p id=x364 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark: London  <a href="https://annualconference.eema.org">https://<wbr>annualconference.eema.org</a> June 18+19 could be a good place to meet again.</p>
<p id=x365 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Goal is to vote to publish on May 21st he first draft!</p>
<p id=a12 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert to look into where to publish our CG spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec.</p>
<p id=x367 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'Bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=x368 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adversisement and feedback cycles to be discussed in the Telco on 21st May</p>
<p id=x370 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Action not assigned to Bert</p>
<p id=x371 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'not'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>ISSUES</h3>
<p id=a13 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bbos to look into where to publish our CG spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec.</p>
<p id=x374 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-99 - Look into where to publish our cg spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec. [on Bert Bos - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=x375 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/</a></p>
<p id=x376 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ISSUE- 2 to address in the report</p>
<p id=x377 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Axel: ISSUE-3 to be postponed</p>
<p id=x378 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Axel: ISSUE-3  Open, ISSUE-5 Postponed (correction)</p>
<p id=x379 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-7 with answer &quot;No&quot;</p>
<p id=x380 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Axel: ISSUE-6 related to ACTION-93</p>
<p id=x381 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-7</p>
<p id=x382 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ISSUE-7.</p>
<p id=x383 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-8: As we agreed to use OWL for modelling, we use unionOf and intersectionOf from OWL.</p>
<p id=x384 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-8 How do we describe unions and intersections of purposes, how doe we describe any vs some “sub”purpose.</p>
<p id=x385 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-8</p>
<p id=x386 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ISSUE-8.</p>
<p id=x387 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> ISSUE-9?</p>
<p id=x388 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/9">ISSUE-9</a></strong> Where are categories of data controllers used, where are they useful? (cf. recital 98, 99, 100) -- raised</p>
<p id=x390 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-9: relates to ACTION-93</p>
<p id=x391 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-9 Where are categories of data controllers used, where are they useful? (cf. recital 98, 99, 100).</p>
<p id=x392 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-10: related to ACTION-87 and ACTION-91</p>
<p id=x393 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-10 Are there mappings to gics from other coding systems naics/nace/isic ....</p>
<p id=x394 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-12: we won't get back to these actions.</p>
<p id=x395 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-12 Shall we get back to action-6, action-19, action-27 (closed without news).</p>
<p id=x396 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-12</p>
<p id=x397 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ISSUE-12.</p>
<p id=x398 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-13: we use the namespace dpv for the ontology and subnamespaces only for mapping external terminologiessuch as eg. NACE,etc.</p>
<p id=x399 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-13 Decide later whether we need sub-namespaces for different subtaxonomies.</p>
<p id=x400 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ISSUE-13</p>
<p id=x401 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ISSUE-13.</p>
<p id=x402 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2006/07/SWD/SKOS/skos-and-owl/master.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2006/<wbr>07/<wbr>SWD/<wbr>SKOS/<wbr>skos-and-owl/<wbr>master.html</a></p>
<p id=x403 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-14: we may refer to this link <a href="https://www.w3.org/2006/07/SWD/SKOS/skos-and-owl/master.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2006/<wbr>07/<wbr>SWD/<wbr>SKOS/<wbr>skos-and-owl/<wbr>master.html</a></p>
<p id=x404 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-14 We may want to add a non-normative comment in the spec that/how the taxonomy can be used as skos..</p>
<p id=x405 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-15: should be mentioned in section on PErsonal data categories.</p>
<p id=x406 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-15 Personal data cateories collected might be collected in an approximate manner (e.g. age vs. age range), should we provide a mechanism in the vocabulary to distinguish this?.</p>
<p id=x407 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-16: should be mentioned in the section about CONSENT (which as such will be a subsection of legal basis.</p>
<p id=x408 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-16 Do we need to further structure consent notice?.</p>
<p id=x409 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Do we need further temporal annotations for the personal data handling class?</p>
<p id=x411 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error creating an ISSUE: could not connect to Tracker.  Please mail &lt;sysreq@w3.org&gt; with details about what happened.</p>
<p id=i03 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Do we need further temporal annotations for the personal data handling class?</p>
<p id=x413 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-18 - Do we need further temporal annotations for the personal data handling class?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/18/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>18/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x414 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ISSUE-18: Do we need terms to document the time instant of specific personal data handling? the validity time of a certain policy? i.e. the temporal extent of a certain personal data handling instance.</p>
<p id=x415 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ISSUE-18 Do we need further temporal annotations for the personal data handling class?.</p>
<p id=x416 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-53</p>
<p id=x417 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-53.</p>
<p id=a14 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to find URLs for GDPR articles.</p>
<p id=x419 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-100 - Find urls for gdpr articles. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=x420 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-100: we will need thois for provenance of many of our terms.</p>
<p id=x421 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-100 Find urls for gdpr articles..</p>
<p id=x422 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-34</p>
<p id=x423 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-34.</p>
<p id=x424 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-33</p>
<p id=x425 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-33.</p>
<p id=a15 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> JAvier to check after next Telco, which terms relate how to SPECIAL vocabularies (initially link them with rdfs:seeAlso</p>
<p id=x427 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-101 - Check after next telco, which terms relate how to special vocabularies (initially link them with rdfs:seealso [on Javier D. Fernández - due 2019-04-12].</p>
<p id=a16 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to copy definitions for StorageLocation and StorageDuration from SPECIAL for now.</p>
<p id=x429 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-102 - Copy definitions for storagelocation and storageduration from special for now. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-12].</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">javier to put list of processing types into processing vocab on spreadsheet, merge with SPCIAL terms, add descriptions.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to finish base ontology by next call (within 2 weeks)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Axel to finish Technical ORganisational measures part in the spreadsheet by next call</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Fajar to provide his conversion of NACE as RDFS/OWL</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Elmar to finish Personal Data Categories and transfer what we agreed upon to the spreadsheet.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Ramisa to drive discussion on Recipients, Data Controllers, Data Subjects forward</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Fajar to finish purposes.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Harsh to complete Legal Basis</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Harsh to consolidate consent part.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">Axel define a process to get from spreadsheets to spec.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a11">Axel to define process for feedback in spec document.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a12">Bert to look into where to publish our CG spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a13">bbos to look into where to publish our CG spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a14">harsh to find URLs for GDPR articles.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a15">JAvier to check after next Telco, which terms relate how to SPECIAL vocabularies (initially link them with rdfs:seeAlso</a></li>
<li><a href="#a16">Axel to copy definitions for StorageLocation and StorageDuration from SPECIAL for now.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">We use hash URIs in the namespaces.</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">we define the vocabularies lary as an OWL ontology</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">Do we need to further structure consent notice?</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">Do we need further temporal annotations for the personal data handling class?</a></li>
<li><a href="#i03">Do we need further temporal annotations for the personal data handling class?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
