<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 09 NOV 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>09 NOV 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Nov/0001.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/11/09-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Purpose Refinements</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Right Exercise</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v1 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/11/02-dpvcg-minutes.html">Previous minutes</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Purpose Refinements</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>We discussed the purposes and refinements to descriptions.</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>All descriptions have been prefixed with the phrase &quot;Purposes associated with ...&quot; to indicate that the description is that of a broad category rather than a rigid, fixed, specific criteria that must be satisfied.</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>The accompanying text will clarify this, and also indicate how to select the appropriate purposes - multiple where necessary - to accurately indicate the intended purposes for an use-case.</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>We discussed proposed purposes. Starting with <code>IdentityAuthentication</code>, we discussed how this is distinct from <code>IdentityVerification</code> and whether it falls under <code>EnforceSecurity</code> along with specific technical measures. This is also to avoid replicating lots of technical measures as purposes.</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>We discussed <code>FulfilmentOfObligation</code> as a purpose, of which the existing <code>LegalCompliance</code> is a subtype.</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>Other subtypes are <code>FulfilmentOfContractualObligation</code> and <code>EstablishContractualAgreement</code>. These have been accepted to indicate whether a purpose is necessary or required by some obligation mechanism i.e. legal compliance or contractual obligations.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Right Exercise</h3>
<p id=x017 class=summary>We discussed the resolution of rights exercise concepts from previous meeting. There were no issues or new discussions, therefore we accept the proposed concepts.</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>One change made to the proposal was regarding the term <code>RightExercise</code> which was used to provide information about how to exercise a right. Instead, this has been renamed to <code>RightExerciseNotice</code> to make clear its role in providing information, and distinguish it from <code>RightExerciseActivity</code> and <code>RightExerciseRecord</code> as other concepts.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV v1 release</h3>
<p id=x020 class=summary>We had originally planned for DPV to be released around NOV-15, which is next week.</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary>Therefore all concepts that have been accepted till today are included in v1, with everything else put as proposed for continued development.</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary>This means DPV, DPV-PD, and DPV-GDPR will be published as v1 as they are deemed to be stable with no outstanding major issues.</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>DPV-TECH and DPV-LEGAL are not going to be published as v1, but will be continued to improve until a stable v1 is reached.</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>For the rest of concepts which have not been included in DPV (e.g. Data Breach), we will insert a note to the effect of their future consideration to show awareness.</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>Volunteers to assist in the release process should help with providing diagrams (see DPV spec), contribute writing (see sections in DPV specs), and review existing writing for correctness and completeness (see DPV specs). Any other form of assistance is also welcome.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x027 class=summary>We will meet again in 1 week, on NOV-16 WED 13:00 WET / 14:00 CET.</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary>The topic will be finalising DPV v1 release.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
