<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 08 January 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>08 January 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/8EA7794E-F4E0-48E6-8AC2-19689CF514B2@wu.ac.at"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/01/08-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert, Bud, Eva, Harsh, Javier, Mark, Ramisa, Stefano</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Progress so far</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x005 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_and_Bud&gt;</cite> Hopefully just a few minutes, he's working on it</p>
<p id=x007 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> Anything we need to add to the agenda (no reponse)</p>
<p id=x008 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> Comments on last minutes (December)</p>
<p id=x009 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/12/11-dpvcg-minutes.html">last minutes</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> minutes approved</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> Moving to action items</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-33?</p>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/33">action-33</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with mark lizar on "concent receipt" definition (e.g. on delegation) -- due 2018-11-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Harsh sent an email with the elements of consent. This needs more work with Mark to show in the next meeting</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>Mark:</cite> Also looking at GDPR version of consent records, and we should have something by next call</p>
<p id=x018 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-35?</p>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/35">action-35</a></strong> Mark Lizar to Add previous classifications to subpages of https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/taxonomy -- due 2018-11-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>Mark:</cite> link to open actions - <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-35</p>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-35.</p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-41?</p>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/41">action-41</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Send email with suggested timing for the agenda as talked about during the last dpvcg call -- due 2018-11-27 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>Mark:</cite> relevant email for Action-35 (by Mark) <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Nov/0027.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Nov/<wbr>0027.html</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-41</p>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-41.</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-42?</p>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/42">action-42</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Look into requirements of data protection assessment, and whether it would make sense to formalize that in terms of what we standardize -- due 2018-12-10 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Eva: ongoing until the next telco</p>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-43?</p>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/43">action-43</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Have a look a study on aal that might help us -- due 2018-12-10 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-43</p>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-43.</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> being done, during last telco I sent the study which is not useful to the group</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-48?</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/48">action-48</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Look into classifications of organisations that could serve as a basis for clsssifying data controllers -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0021.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0021.html</a><br>
<span id=x045>… categorisation of organisations</span></p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-49?</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/49">action-49</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Put ms visio picture of usage policy on the wiki -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-49</p>
<p id=x050 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-49.</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-5?</p>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/5">action-5</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Draft a page about GDPRtext -- due 2018-08-13 -- CLOSED</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-55?</p>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/55">action-55</a></strong> Javier D. Fernández to Look into how to align special duration vocab with “deletion-ideas” from eva’s slide (e.g. include no-retention, deleted-by, etc.) in our vocabulary -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-57?</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/57">action-57</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Start definitionsions of the high-level purposes at https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/purposes_for_handling_personal_data#high-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29 and map them to purposes collected from use cases -- due 2018-12-18 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s04"><cite>Javier:</cite> we'll discuss during the next meeting<br>
<span id=x062>… high-level data purposes (email) <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0034.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0034.html</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Progress so far</h3>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> did anyone make any progress on anything?</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Eva: The main problem is the xmas holidays, but will get up to speed soon</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Harsh: how consent is given in the web, having a look at the IAD consent. How to give consent, advertisement... From the legal point of view, is it enough or not</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> IAB europe consent framework<br>
<span id=x069>… <a href="https://github.com/InteractiveAdvertisingBureau/GDPR-Transparency-and-Consent-Framework">InteractiveAdvertisingBureau/<wbr>GDPR-Transparency-and-Consent-Framework</a></span></p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Eva: I will have a look</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> send an email on the community mailing list and I can take a look</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Mark: They call it consent but it is probably not consent</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> eva to look at IAB Europe consent framework</p>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-58 - Look at iab europe consent framework [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2019-01-15].</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Harsh: It is more a technical framework, but maybe the most important are the categories of data, purposes...</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Mark: will have a look too, interesting</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Harsh: it seems a limited framework, no way to add new categories, but a good start</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Bert: Other topics?</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> IAB purposes: <a href="https://github.com/InteractiveAdvertisingBureau/GDPR-Transparency-and-Consent-Framework/blob/master/Consent%20string%20and%20vendor%20list%20formats%20v1.1%20Final.md#purposes-features">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>InteractiveAdvertisingBureau/<wbr>GDPR-Transparency-and-Consent-Framework/<wbr>blob/<wbr>master/<wbr>Consent%20string%20and%20vendor%20list%20formats%20v1.1%20Final.md#purposes-features</a></p>
<p id=x080 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Harsh: Axel, javier and me are looking into data categories and looking at papers and other sources mentioning that data can be inferred from other data. For example, given data A and B, data C can be inferred</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> ... plan is to have some results in the next months</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> Did anyone take a look at the slides Bud posted an hour ago?<br>
<span id=x084>… <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Jan/0004.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Jan/<wbr>0004.html</a></span></p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Eva: Will there be a draft document of our findings?</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Bert: Yes, but we have no concrete plans so far</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> we should have a document to keep track of different things people are looking at, and keeping a concise overview is required to make it easy to communicate and understand</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Bert: So far I think we could continue with the wiki...</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> I thought we can use the wiki as a reporting tool, but we can also have a report. What do others think?</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Harsh: I think now we are still in an early phase, how are we going to create the vocabulary, which language,...</p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> also the question about who takes editorship of the document</p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s05"><cite>Harsh:</cite> so in the next few calls, we can discuss and decide on these and then write the report describing our plan and approach</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_and_Bud&gt;</cite> our webex connection just died, trying to reconnect</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_and_Bud&gt;</cite> back :)</p>
<p id=x095 class="phone s05"><cite>Harsh:</cite> we can discuss (ACTION-53) about the namespace, Javier suggested priv as the namespace on mailing list.</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s04"><cite>Javier:</cite> we can discuss these in the next call(s) when Axel is present</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Bert: so next telco would be in 2 weeks as planned</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> next call on 22nd as per schedule</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Hash: I can share an overview of the status if that's useful</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">eva to look at IAB Europe consent framework</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
