<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 02 April 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>02 April 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/04/02-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>elmar</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Ramisa will be locally with Harsh remotely from Dublin Thu and Friday</p>
<p id=x003 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Elmar will join F2F in Vienna</p>
<p id=x004 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Elmar will join except 1:30-3:30 on thursday, also availabnle on Friday</p>
<p id=x005 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Bud will also join in Vienna</p>
<p id=x007 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> In the call: Ramisa, Javier, Bud, Axel, Elmar</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> simon steyskal, mark lizar, javier, ramise plus the people on the doodle are expcected to join</p>
<p id=x009 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... the f2f</p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> topics <a href="https://doodle.com/poll/pmer9cap995c7mkb">https://<wbr>doodle.com/<wbr>poll/<wbr>pmer9cap995c7mkb</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  Creating Overall Taxonomy/Ontology:   Javier, Axel</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Personal Data Categories: Harsh, Elmar (instead of Fajar, who sent regrets), Javier</p>
<p id=x013 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Processing Categories: Simon, Javier, Elmar, Bud</p>
<p id=x014 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Purposes: Elmar, Javier, Axel</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Security constraints &amp; Storage constraints: Axel, Harsh, Mark</p>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Legal Basis: Bud, Simon Harsh,</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Consent Actions:  Mark, Bud,Harsh, Simon</p>
<p id=x018 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> (sorry I cannot hear anything but I'm online here)</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> any suggestions for a joint tool to consolidate the vocularies</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Could we use WebProtege?</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Axel: Is WebProtegefree?</p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Would be good to decide in the first session. Would also be good to have an example</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Fallback option: Google Spreadsheet?</p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> if we don't work with a tool, we could just use google spreadsheets.</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Would be good for all people marked in bold to gather what's already there</p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> action to all session responsibles: gather what is already there in terms of proposed terms and hierarchy and present that in the beginning of the session.</p>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'to'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Mark will be in Dublin</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> As for collaborative editing, it is probably good to use git, as Harsh has here: <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg</a></p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Mark: will try to make sure that Dublin can join at 8:30 already.</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Then you can pull, import into protege, edit and push again</p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we aim at starting at 8:30am Dublin time, i.e. 9:30am CEST</p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... in Vienna</p>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Ramisa: will be in Dublin as well</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Ramisa will be there at 8:30 as well</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> ramisa to tell us which sessions she plans to join.</p>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-78 - Tell us which sessions she plans to join. [on Roghaiyeh(Ramisa) Gachpaz Hamed - due 2019-04-09].</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Axel and Javier will give an overview in the morning.</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Then parallel sessions to stabilize what is there.</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Axel will go through the list of open ACTIONs and remind the leads to review/include them</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Focus should be on consolidation.</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSE: approve last minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/03/19-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>03/<wbr>19-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark_L&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve last minutes <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/03/19-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>03/<wbr>19-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> github...</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Mark to discuss with Harsh how/whether to use github as a template.</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-79 - Discuss with harsh how/whether to use github as a template. [on Mark Lizar - due 2019-04-09].</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Javier: Google Sheets is fine for this meeting, but would be good to move it to GitHub later</p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> javier: google would be useful for the meeting for collaborative editing, and then a process to export this to an OWL ontology.</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark: maybe a session in the end on Friday to export from the spreadsheeets.</p>
<p id=x055 class=irc><cite>&lt;Elmar_Kiesling&gt;</cite> Mark: might also be easy to just use GoogleDocs and then consolidate it</p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> Axel had battery problems. Goodbye all and see you in Vienna!</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: if everybody has left, then I wish you all safe travels and see you on Thu.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to prepare a templte for the spreadsheet.</p>
<p id=x059 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-80 - Prepare a templte for the spreadsheet. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-09].</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adjourned</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> : rrsagent, make minutes world-visible</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> see you all!</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">ramisa to tell us which sessions she plans to join.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Mark to discuss with Harsh how/whether to use github as a template.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Axel to prepare a templte for the spreadsheet.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve last minutes https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>03/<wbr>19-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
