<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG &ndash; 04 June 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG</h1>
<h2>04 June 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Jun/0001.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/06/04-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Axel, Bert, Elmar, Harsh, Javier, mark</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Bert</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>axel</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">actions items review</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">discussing harsh's mail https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Jun/<wbr>0000.html</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">recipients</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> I think echo is coming from Bert's side</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> (also javier)</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x009 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> previous minutes link?</p>
<p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/23-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>23-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes from last time <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/23-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>23-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve minutes from last time <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/23-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>23-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>actions items review</h3>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-70?</p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/70">action-70</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Check back with owners which actions are ready for review and discussion in the call -- due 2019-03-05 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  close ACTION-70</p>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-70.</p>
<p id=x022 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-76?</p>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/76">action-76</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Map all closed and pending review actions to the respective edoitors/responsibles of parts ofg our taxonomy. -- due 2019-03-26 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-76</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-76.</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-81?</p>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/81">action-81</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Put internet scope/wider scope on the agenda tomorrow. -- due 2019-04-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-89?</p>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/89">action-89</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Finish base ontology by next call (within 2 weeks) -- due 2019-04-12 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-89</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-89.</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-97?</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/97">action-97</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Define a process to get from spreadsheets to spec. -- due 2019-04-12 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="http://github.com/dpvcg/extract-sheets/">http://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>extract-sheets/</a></p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> script to get doc from spreadsheet</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-99?</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/99">action-99</a></strong> Bert Bos to Look into where to publish our cg spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec. -- due 2019-04-12 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh has documented how to genreate the spec and what manual editing is needed</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> (will be adding more detailed instructions later today)</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ..., see <a href="http://github.com/dpvcg/extract-sheets/">http://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>extract-sheets/</a> this closes ACTION-97</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-97</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-97.</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Github pages version <a href="https://dpvcg.github.io/extract-sheets/index.html">https://<wbr>dpvcg.github.io/<wbr>extract-sheets/<wbr>index.html</a></p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> rdf is part of the HTML at the moment, we could just host the HTML on the namespace page.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Bert: each namespace needs a machine-readable version and an HTML page.</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> I can generate the files (HTML + rdf)</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... but we need both for all three namespaces.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to generate the separate RDF files  per namespace.</p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-111 - Generate the separate rdf files  per namespace. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=x055 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-99: should be tied to ACTION-111</p>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-99 Look into where to publish our cg spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec..</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to review spec and reflection of ISSUES in the spec on next Tue</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-112 - Review spec and reflection of issues in the spec on next tue [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-109?</p>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/109">action-109</a></strong> Axel Polleres to Check with harsh whether/how the script have a way to display the "comments" column as issues to be discussed in the spec generation? -- due 2019-05-30 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Elmar can help.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> elmar together with Harsh check comments in spreadsheets (drive-comments and 'comments' column) and how they are reflected in the generated spec</p>
<p id=x064 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-113 - Together with harsh check comments in spreadsheets (drive-comments and 'comments' column) and how they are reflected in the generated spec [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-110?</p>
<p id=x066 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/110">action-110</a></strong> Elmar Kiesling to Review comments on personaldatacategory descriptions and see whether we need to discuss, request any specific comments.. on any of them -- due 2019-05-30 -- PENDINGREVIEW</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> close action-110</p>
<p id=x069 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-110.</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-113: if this is done it also should close ACTION-109, so we close ACTION-109</p>
<p id=x071 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-113 Together with harsh check comments in spreadsheets (drive-comments and 'comments' column) and how they are reflected in the generated spec.</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-109</p>
<p id=x073 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-109.</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> close action 68, 84, 106</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-84</p>
<p id=x076 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-84.</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-68</p>
<p id=x078 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-68.</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-106</p>
<p id=x080 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-106.</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-14: deprecated, no longer relevant</p>
<p id=x082 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-14 Ask hendrik for edition ieee 7012.</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-14</p>
<p id=x084 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-14.</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> hi ..</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-67?</p>
<p id=x088 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/67">action-67</a></strong> Javier D. Fernández to Look into data controllers and recipients taxonomy with help of piero, axel -- due 2019-02-19 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-67: agreement to leave it with the current version</p>
<p id=x091 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-67 Look into data controllers and recipients taxonomy with help of piero, axel.</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> we ask for particular feedback on whether and how to extend the list/taxonomy of controllers and recipients in the current vocabulary.</p>
<p id=x093 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-22 - We ask for particular feedback on whether and how to extend the list/taxonomy of controllers and recipients in the current vocabulary..  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/22/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>22/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-67</p>
<p id=x095 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-67.</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> action review finished...</p>
<p id=x097 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'review'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> action-87?</p>
<p id=x101 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/87">action-87</a></strong> Mark Lizar to Make a proposal alternatively use gics instead of nace. -- due 2019-04-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> mark: not only does GDPR need to work outside EU, but also W3C specs should work at internet scale.</p>
<p id=x104 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... this is an issue.</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: we mention already that you can use more than NACE.</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> mark: we should acknowledge in the spec that this will evolve.</p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: we don't specify restrictions on the sector code.</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> mark: data controller category ... we need a way to tie data controllers to certain sectors... industry code goes a long way there.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> mark to make a concrete proposal along specification of data controller categories by sector in the spec.</p>
<p id=x110 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-114 - Make a concrete proposal along specification of data controller categories by sector in the spec. [on Mark Lizar - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ideally mark an harsh agree on adding an issue.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh sends out an email with pointer to the reviewable spec and RDF files by the end of the week to the list for insternal review.</p>
<p id=x113 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-115 - Sends out an email with pointer to the reviewable spec and rdf files by the end of the week to the list for insternal review. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=x114 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> goal next time is to vote for publishing.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>discussing harsh's mail <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Jun/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Jun/<wbr>0000.html</a></h3>
<p id=x116 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> elmar: I rephrased description of SocialMediaCommunication</p>
<p id=x118 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: agree with changes</p>
<p id=x119 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> I like the more general - human - version</p>
<p id=x120 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> elmar: the second one is TelephoneRecording vs. VoiceMail, seems to not cover other VoiceRecording</p>
<p id=x121 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> voice - text - etc..</p>
<p id=x122 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> Direct voice, voice recording,  Direct Text, text recording..</p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: let's use CallRecording rather than TelephoneRecording?</p>
<p id=x124 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/edit#gid=1356512815">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/<wbr>edit#gid=1356512815</a></p>
<p id=x125 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> A catch-all term would be CommunicationRecording covering both calls and chats</p>
<p id=x126 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> is there a reference for this - ? or a policy/law that provides the example</p>
<p id=x127 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: let's have a superclass CommunicationRecording with subclasses CallRecording ChatRecording?</p>
<p id=x128 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> No, policies for example would use &quot;call recording&quot;</p>
<p id=x129 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1 axel</p>
<p id=x130 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> for what purpose - ? as a notice ?</p>
<p id=x131 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ChatRecord ⟶ MessageRecording</p>
<p id=x132 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> We also miss &quot;video&quot; recording</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> I would say CommunicationRecording with subclasses videoRecording, textRecording, voiceRecording</p>
<p id=x134 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1 axel</p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> should we add more subclasses to CommunicationRecording (e.g. distinguishing chats, personalmessaging, videocommunication, telephony, etc.) and which ones?</p>
<p id=x136 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-23 - Should we add more subclasses to communicationrecording (e.g. distinguishing chats, personalmessaging, videocommunication, telephony, etc.) and which ones?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/23/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>23/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x137 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> national  jurisdictions are also needed - Now that you mention it</p>
<p id=x138 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> there are differences in natonional Data protection law in the EU - using the GDPR</p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> nation and location  +1</p>
<p id=i03 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> should we add more specific subclasses like CountryofCitizenship, CountryOfResidence, CountryOfCurrentLocation to Country and which ones?</p>
<p id=x141 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-24 - Should we add more specific subclasses like countryofcitizenship, countryofresidence, countryofcurrentlocation to country and which ones?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/24/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>24/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x142 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> done with Personal Data ...</p>
<p id=x143 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> beneficiary in purpose</p>
<p id=x144 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: I would suggest to treat everything which has a comment similar to ISSUEs in the spec</p>
<p id=x145 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: let's leave the proposed Benefiiciary terms in and mark them.</p>
<p id=x146 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> I dont tank it makes sense if a NACE is a purpose sub-class</p>
<p id=x147 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> if anything purpose is a sub-class of the Controller Category</p>
<p id=x148 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Hrsh: suggest to remove NACE code example from the spec from the RDF, mention the example in the spec.</p>
<p id=x149 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1 to remove it from the RDF files, but keep it in the documentation as an example</p>
<p id=x150 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> purposes done.</p>
<p id=x152 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> topid: recipients done.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>recipients</h3>
<p id=x154 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Javier: recipients is simplistic, but that's what we have so far.</p>
<p id=x155 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... this is what we have in SPECIAL.</p>
<p id=x156 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: confusing, but suggest we include them as suggestions welcoming comments to refine.</p>
<p id=x157 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> I have to drop -- Great Work !!    ☺</p>
<p id=x158 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> isn't reciept the controller, processor, joint controller or sub-processor ?</p>
<p id=x159 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: &quot;same&quot; is particularly confusing.</p>
<p id=x160 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> recipient -- not reciept</p>
<p id=x161 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> and 3rd party</p>
<p id=x162 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we should have processor and thirdparty, and leave the other ones as suggestions/proposed only</p>
<p id=x163 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x164 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> javier: we should also leave sub-processor in?</p>
<p id=x165 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: we leave it in as coming from GDPR, but as proposed.</p>
<p id=x166 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOED: approve processor and thirdparty as recipients?</p>
<p id=x167 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve processor and thirdparty as recipients?</p>
<p id=x168 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x169 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x170 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve processor and thirdparty as recipients?</p>
<p id=x172 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> What about Controller? Is the controller a recipient?</p>
<p id=i04 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Should we explicitly note that the the controller is always a recipient of the data, if not, do we need to make this explicit inth vocabulary, by declaring it?</p>
<p id=x174 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-25 - Should we explicitly note that the the controller is always a recipient of the data, if not, do we need to make this explicit inth vocabulary, by declaring it?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/25/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>25/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x175 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: this should be that last issue.</p>
<p id=x176 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we should have a document later this week.</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bert to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</p>
<p id=x178 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bbos to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</p>
<p id=x180 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-116 - Review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week. [on Bert Bos - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> elmar to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</p>
<p id=x182 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-117 - Review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week. [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> axel to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</p>
<p id=x184 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-118 - Review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> javier to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</p>
<p id=x186 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-119 - Review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week. [on Javier D. Fernández - due 2019-06-11].</p>
<p id=x187 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adjourn?</p>
<p id=x188 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adjourned</p>
<p id=x194 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> hooray, minutes are out</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Harsh to generate the separate RDF files  per namespace.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to review spec and reflection of ISSUES in the spec on next Tue</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">elmar together with Harsh check comments in spreadsheets (drive-comments and 'comments' column) and how they are reflected in the generated spec</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">mark to make a concrete proposal along specification of data controller categories by sector in the spec.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">harsh sends out an email with pointer to the reviewable spec and RDF files by the end of the week to the list for insternal review.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">bert to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">bbos to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">elmar to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">axel to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">javier to review draft spec to be sent by harsh later this week.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve minutes from last time https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>05/<wbr>23-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">approve processor and thirdparty as recipients?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">we ask for particular feedback on whether and how to extend the list/taxonomy of controllers and recipients in the current vocabulary.</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">should we add more subclasses to CommunicationRecording (e.g. distinguishing chats, personalmessaging, videocommunication, telephony, etc.) and which ones?</a></li>
<li><a href="#i03">should we add more specific subclasses like CountryofCitizenship, CountryOfResidence, CountryOfCurrentLocation to Country and which ones?</a></li>
<li><a href="#i04">Should we explicitly note that the the controller is always a recipient of the data, if not, do we need to make this explicit inth vocabulary, by declaring it?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
