<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 03 AUG 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>03 AUG 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0/20230803T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/08/03-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, harsh, ted</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georg, paul</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Risk Assessment</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Data Breach / Incident</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Risk Management</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">DGA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Expanding scope to Non-Personal Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Proposed Concepts</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t07">Associate Legal Basis with Rights</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">indicating PII</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Location concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Main Establishments and Lead SA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">AI Act</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">Upcoming Documents</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t13">Guide on Consent Records</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">Guide for Data Breach</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t15">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-08-03">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-08-03</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Risk Assessment</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>See email by harsh regarding concepts - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0016.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0016.html</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>We will be meeting with Rob and Julio later today to discuss the risk concepts in DPV based on their experience with the ARK project which also has a risk vocabulary, see <a href="https://openark.adaptcentre.ie/">https://<wbr>openark.adaptcentre.ie/</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Conclusions from the discussion will be shared back here to the group for consensus</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a></p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">Issue 104</a></strong>  Re-evaluate Risk Assessment concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [application] [help-wanted]</p>
<h4 id=t02>Data Breach / Incident</h4>
<p id=x020 class=summary>For the ongoing data breach and incident concepts, they have a dependency on risk assessment concepts. Therefore, their further progress and documentation is paused until the risk assessment concepts have been finalised.</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong>  Provide concepts for Data Breach (by coolharsh55) [todo] [application] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">#100</a></p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">Issue 100</a></strong>  Proposal to add (security) Incident Reporting concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [application] [help-wanted]</p>
<h4 id=t03>Risk Management</h4>
<p id=x026 class=summary>Tangential to the Risk Assessment concepts are the Risk Management concepts, which refer to the organisational processes in place to manage risk. These will be incorporated into the Risk Assessment structure once finalised, and will be based on the ISO 31K series.</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong>  Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [help-wanted]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DGA</h3>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> discussing with georg, there is a pending review of legal basis and register concepts</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> beatriz will share current list actions and concepts to be reviewed to the mailing list as she will be on vacation next week</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> For the documentation of concepts, we need the spreadsheet to be in the same format (i.e. columns and ordering) as the other DPV CSVs. Then I can add it to the documentation generator and the RDF and HTML should be automatically generated.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> will make the spreadsheet in the required format</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/105">#105</a></p>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/105">Issue 105</a></strong>  Generate documentation for proposed DGA concepts (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [todo]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Expanding scope to Non-Personal Data</h3>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> No new inputs to this topic. As scheduled, we will take a decision at the end of August based on provided inputs, with further time until September to address the decision made.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Proposed Concepts</h3>
<h4 id=t07>Associate Legal Basis with Rights</h4>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Scheduled for inclusion in DPV v1.1<br>
<span id=x042>â€¦ see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">#49</a></span></p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">Issue 49</a></strong> Provide association and applicability between GDPR legal bases and rights (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [concepts] [todo] [help-wanted]</p>
<h4 id=t08>indicating PII</h4>
<p id=x045 class=summary> Scheduled for inclusion in DPV v1.1</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Instead of PII, which is a ambigious term due to ISO redefining to be similar to personal data (as data about an identifiable person or to data that identifies a person), we are proposing <code>IdentifiablePersonalData</code> with further specific types representing <code>Explicit</code> i.e. data directly identifies the person, and <code>Implicit</code> i.e. data indirectly identifies the person such as through combination or because of its uniqueness.</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">#14</a></p>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">Issue 14</a></strong> Indicating PII i.e. Personally Identifiable data category or categories in combination (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [question] [help-wanted]</p>
<h4 id=t09>Location concepts</h4>
<p id=x050 class=summary> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">#46</a></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> We need to resolve this topic and move on. Based on the progress (or lack of it) so far, it would be easier to keep the location concepts in DPV and use <code>owl:sameAs</code> or <code>skos:exactMatch</code> to link with other vocabularies, e.g. the EUVOC concepts which are not well documented for reuse, see <a href="https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/notes-reuse-euvoc">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dev/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>notes-reuse-euvoc</a></p>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">Issue 46</a></strong> Use/Align with EU location vocabularies (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [scope] [concepts] [todo]</p>
<h4 id=t10>Main Establishments and Lead SA</h4>
<p id=x054 class=summary> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">#93</a></p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Earlier, <code>Establishment</code> was proposed as a concept to be included in the main DPV. Upon further thoughts, it would be better to move it to DPV-GDPR as it is a EU-specific concept, and <code>MainEstablishment</code> is a GDPR-defined concept (or role). </p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Similarly, Lead Supervisory Authority and Concerned Supervisory Authority are also GDPR only roles. See the proposed concepts in the issue linked.</p>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">Issue 93</a></strong> Representing Main Establishment and Lead SA as a concept (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [help-wanted]</p>
<h4 id=t11>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x059 class=summary> See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">#106</a></p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> planning ahead, it would be better to start now for the concepts regarding AI Act so we can know what is compatible with DPV, which concepts should be in core and which in extension. Learning from modelling DGA, we know that there can be substantial changes.</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> is the AI Act within the scope of the group?</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> I think so, because AI definitely involves personal data in several cases, and also forms the basis of &quot;automated decision making&quot; which we already include in DPV. Also, its too relevant to leave out. Most of the concepts can fit in the DPV-TECH vocabulary, and the AI Act specific concepts such as the legal basis and the roles can be in the extension. We can use your PhD outputs and also the EMPOWER outputs to start this by mapping them to DPV.</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s03"><cite>delaram:</cite> Will check with Julio and Dave about reusing the outputs.</p>
<p id=x064 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Upcoming Documents</h3>
<h4 id=t13>Guide on Consent Records</h4>
<p id=x067 class=summary> See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/68">#68</a></p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/68">Issue 68</a></strong> Provide Guide for using DPV to create Consent Records (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [todo]</p>
<h4 id=t14>Guide for Data Breach</h4>
<p id=x070 class=summary> See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">#103</a></p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> This was earlier the Data Breach extension, which after moving the breach concepts to RISK and GDPR extensions, is now a guidance document for using them. Currently put on pause pending the resolution of risk assessment concepts for the examples and descriptions.</p>
<p id=x072 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">Issue 103</a></strong> Guide for Data Breach (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [concepts] [todo] [application]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x074 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week, on THU AUG-10 15:00 CEST.</p>
<p id=x075 class=summary> Agenda will continue from current topics as well as updates to topics discussed today.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
