<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 05 OCT 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>05 OCT 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Oct/0001.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/10/05-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul, tek</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Rules</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Exercising Rights</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Cloud concepts in dpv-tech</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/09/28-dpvcg-minutes.html">Previous minutes</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Rules</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>harsh shared the creation of rule concepts in DPV along with examples - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Oct/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2022Oct/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>The group has discussed this and agreed to the following.</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>We will have concept <code>Rule</code> with relation <code>hasRule</code> for general association with rules. For specific concepts, we will specialise both the relation and the concept for Permission, Prohibition, and Obligation.</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>This will be added to the main DPV spec. It will be accompanied with text explaining the concepts, limitations of scope and interpretation (see email above), and pointing to other specs that provide more comprehensive concepts.</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>We will await any issues/problems on this resolution before accepting it in the next meeting.</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>Further details / points made during the discussion are as follows.</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> making a distinction between technical and legal interpretation of these 'rules'</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Exercising Rights</h3>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> This is a continued discussion from previous meeting.<br>
<span id=x025>… We discussed how to express rights, exercising of rights, and exemptions to the exercising of rights. We await examples and more detailed proposals for these.</span><br>
<span id=x026>… beatriz proposed the addition of RightExemption as a concept modelling the exemption to a right</span><br>
<span id=x027>… We discussed this, and agreed on the following.</span><br>
<span id=x028>… We have Active and Passive rights (from earlier discussion), we have proposed <code>isExercisedAt</code> as a relation to express <code>RightExercise</code>, and using <code>isApplicableFor</code> and <code>isNotApplicableFor</code> to express conditions where the right may or may not be applied or be exempted from.</span><br>
<span id=x029>… Note here that DPV has the existing concepts <code>hasScope Scope</code> that can be used to indicate 'is applicable for' with a separate relation to describe what is not in scope or what is being exempted i.e. as <code>isNotApplicableFor</code> with some condition</span><br>
<span id=x030>… To express what needs to be done for a right, we reuse the <code>hasObligation</code> relation from rules discussion to express obligations associated with the right.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Cloud concepts in dpv-tech</h3>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>tek:</cite> concepts such as edge computing and multi-region clouds where region overlaps or crosses (jurisdictional) boundaries should be represented as these are growing common in use-cases<br>
<span id=x036>… We discussed whether the 'cloud' concept can be described using <code>hasLocation</code> and specifying multiple locations, and that the perspective of 'multi-region' may be jurisdiction dependant.</span><br>
<span id=x037>… For example, for a cloud with servers in FR and DE, the notion of multi-region (jurisdiction) does not apply for EU as these are both in EU, but applies for FR and DE each as the other is not a region located in the same country.</span><br>
<span id=x038>… The discussion can be continued on GitHub <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47">w3c/<wbr>dpv#47</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>tek:</cite> Next Meeting will be in 1 week, on OCT-12. Timing will be confirmed later as harsh and beatriz are both travelling on the day, and we may start later than usual.<br>
<span id=x049>… Topic will be resolution of rules, continued discussion on rights exercise, and other items on the agenda.</span><br>
<span id=x050>… References shared during the meeting -</span><br>
<span id=x051>… smashHit core ontology, from the smashHit H2020 project <a href="https://smashhiteu.github.io/smashHitCore/">https://<wbr>smashhiteu.github.io/<wbr>smashHitCore/</a> that provides concepts such as Obligation status and contract metadata</span><br>
<span id=x052>… We have invited tek and the project to liase with DPVCG for continued development of the ontology after the duration of the project</span><br>
<span id=x053>… Similarly, we have invited members to propose their work for inclusion and integration with DPVCG - delaram for AI Act vocabulary, and beatriz for DGA vocabulary.</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
