<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 07 May 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>07 May 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019May/0002.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/05/07-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert, rigo</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>axelPolleres</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>elmar</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">timeline</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x005 class=summary>Me neither</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Maybe than easier if Bert chairs...</p>
<p id=x007 class=summary>Axel, could you try headphones?</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ...apologies, have no headphones close by at the moment.</p>
<p id=x010 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve F2F minutes as per agenda links</p>
<p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve F2F minutes as per agenda links</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harch sent a long list of action items we can close...</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> mail: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019May/0001.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019May/<wbr>0001.html</a></p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>Will close the action items from Harsh's Email offline</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bert to close actions to be closed as per <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019May/0001.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019May/<wbr>0001.html</a></p>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/edit#gid=1356512815">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>13d1eRXZZBCw84vYGoCJeMU08rzkkzadDzxY3n2iOi8k/<wbr>edit#gid=1356512815</a></p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bbos to close actions to be closed as per <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019May/0001.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019May/<wbr>0001.html</a></p>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-103 - Close actions to be closed as per <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2019may/0001.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019may/<wbr>0001.html</a> [on Bert Bos - due 2019-05-14].</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>Vocabulary spreadsheet</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> it should all be on the spreadsheet.</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I essentially added all contributors as authors to the draft.</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/dpvcg/extract-sheets/">dpvcg/<wbr>extract-sheets</a></p>
<p id=x030 class=summary>Harsh tried to run the script to generate the documentation from the spreadsheet</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://dpvcg.github.io/extract-sheets/index.html">https://<wbr>dpvcg.github.io/<wbr>extract-sheets/<wbr>index.html</a></p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> there is a script now to generate a spec doc from the gdoc and the gsheet.</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> FWIW, I also had worked further on the overall document...</p>
<p id=x036 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/edit#">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/<wbr>edit#</a></p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Processing:</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Processing tab - not sure about description for (32) Exchange and (42) Restrict</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary>Exchange is not in the GDPR, Restrict is</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Exchange is confusing - would need to list all kinds of disclosures and have a new class for all constraints - would be overkill</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>Rigo:</cite> we need transfer, but we don't need exchange.<br>
<span id=x043>… Exchange = 2xtransfer</span></p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Rigo: propose to remove exchange from Processing</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> question: do we need otherwise conditional disclosure?</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> aren't these very close to ODRL actions?</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Could we not refer to ODRL ACTIONS for processing conditions?</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I consider this an ISSUE (which we do not have to resolve now.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> i.e.: ISSUE: do we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions and restrcitions to a specific processing.</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED issue: ISSUE: do we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions and restrcitions to a specific processing or can we re-use ODRL'</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> s mechanism here?</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Constraint is a very general concept; we need to find out what the best place is to put constraints in the taxonomy.<br>
<span id=x055>… PROPOSED: make the modeling of constraints an ISSUE?</span></p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED issue: ISSUE: do we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions, constraints and restrcitions to a specific processing or data category can we re-use ODRL's mechanism?</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>Rigo:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> raise ISSUEdo we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions, constraints and restrcitions to a specific processing or data category or can we re-use ODRL's mechanism?</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> do we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions, constraints and restrcitions to a specific processing or data category or can we re-use ODRL's mechanism?</p>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-19 - Do we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions, constraints and restrcitions to a specific processing or data category or can we re-use odrl's mechanism?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/19/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>19/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> How do we link the issues to the draft document?<br>
<span id=x066>… Just as links to issues?</span></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to discuss with Axel to make sure ISSUEs are reflected in FPWD</p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-104 - Discuss with axel to make sure issues are reflected in fpwd [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-05-14].</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: processing action &quot;exchange&quot; was removed (unclear what it meains</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: we should make sure that classes from the base ontology aren't dublicated in the subsheets.</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Top-level concepts (dpv:processing etc.) should be put in the base ontology.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to remove duplicate top-level classes from subsheets.</p>
<p id=x073 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-105 - Remove duplicate top-level classes from subsheets. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-05-14].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>timeline</h3>
<p id=x075 class="phone s02"><cite>Axel:</cite> Harsh regarding timeline: by the next call, there can be a complete draft version of the document to review.</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: By next call: spec should be finished. we will also try to make progresss on the document</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> +1 sounds good</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: aims to send around document by this weekend.</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> collaboration/help/assists welcome in the Google Doc</p>
<p id=x080 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> should we action some people for internal review?</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> or next time?</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Should agree on how exactly to publish it.</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ACTION-99</p>
<p id=x084 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/99">ACTION-99</a></strong> Bert Bos to Look into where to publish our cg spec, and how to redirect from the namespace doc to the spec. -- due 2019-04-12 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we need a vanilla HTML version of the doc ...</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> by vanilla - you mean without Google Doc css/styles?</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> yes, it should use W3C spec stylesheets</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> or no?</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Yes, that would be better</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> I'll try to strip out the CSS in the script itself, and then include w3c CSS</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> the trouble  is at the moment we use gdoces instead of plain HTML, but we can maybe move to plain HTML with the FPWD and then stick with the plain HTML for editiing, leaving the google spreadsheets.</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> we can generate vanilla HTML from gdocs as well by using a css-remover on the gdocs html</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> the ad industry has 27000 classes for profiling, where is the limit?</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> @rigo is there any way to access these 27k classes? Would be great to build into a vocabulary.</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> We can always refer to external vocabularies, if available, but we will not invent them</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Yes, I meant creating an external vocabulary instead of merging into dpvcg</p>
<p id=x098 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> We can discuss to name them as an extension, is there a link to these?</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> isn't that already possible? i.e. someone can mark data both as locationdata and as sensitivedata or just one of those?</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> I need to run, sorry.</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> If we include levels of sensitivity in the taxonomy, then that's some real knowledge we can transfer.</p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> (We should adjourn to the next call in two weeks, FWIW or raise an ISSUE)</p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> how to express sensity of data?</p>
<p id=x104 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-20 - How to express sensity of data?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/20/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>20/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Propose: Derived data as a class instead of a property</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Elmar to change isderived to a class</p>
<p id=x107 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-106 - Change isderived to a class [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-05-14].</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> next meeting 23rd May</p>
<p id=x109 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> Privmas Eve</p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> May 23rd -</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">bert to close actions to be closed as per https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019May/<wbr>0001.html</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">bbos to close actions to be closed as per https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019May/<wbr>0001.html</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Harsh to discuss with Axel to make sure ISSUEs are reflected in FPWD</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">harsh to remove duplicate top-level classes from subsheets.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Elmar to change isderived to a class</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve F2F minutes as per agenda links</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">raise ISSUEdo we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions, constraints and restrcitions to a specific processing or data category or can we re-use ODRL's mechanism?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">do we need a generic mechanism to describe conditions, constraints and restrcitions to a specific processing or data category or can we re-use ODRL's mechanism?</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">how to express sensity of data?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
