<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 11 December 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>11 December 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/12/11-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>bert, bud, dave, dave lewis, eva, harsh, lewis, mark, martin, rigo</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>AxelPollleres</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>rigo</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">action review https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Bud about the new processiong</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x011 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes rom F2F</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0042.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0042.html</a></p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> all requested incorporated</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: Rigo confirmed all ACTION items have been collected</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>rigo:</cite> Action50?</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>trackbot:</cite> action50?</p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Sorry, rigo, I don't understand 'trackbot: action50?'. Please refer to &lt;<a href="http://www.w3.org/2005/06/tracker/irc">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2005/<wbr>06/<wbr>tracker/<wbr>irc</a>&gt; for help.</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes rom F2F, cf. <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0042.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0042.html</a></p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>trackbot:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve minutes rom F2F, cf. <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0042.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0042.html</a></p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>trackbot:</cite> trackbot, ACTION-50?</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/50">ACTION-50</a></strong> Bud P. Bruegger to Suggest a new hierarchy of the usage policy diagram and integrate into the presentation of tuesday 11 -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>trackbot:</cite> trackbot, ACTION-51?</p>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/51">ACTION-51</a></strong> Bud P. Bruegger to Prepare a presentation for next dpvcg telco on 11 december -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> Hello</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>trackbot:</cite> Hi Mark</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Minutes were approved<br>
<span id=x034>… main goal is to to go through the minutes and report from the F2F</span></p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>Eva:</cite> agenda+ for Bud to present his model of processing</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> 30 min and trying screen sharing</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> covered all the items we wanted to discuss [enumerates] for further info see <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/12/03-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>12/<wbr>03-dpvcg-minutes</a> and <a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/12/04-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2018/<wbr>12/<wbr>04-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>action review <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></h3>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> action-6 continued<br>
<span id=x042>… DMA and IDS project has no detailed response yet</span><br>
<span id=x043>… trackbot, close ACTION-31</span></p>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-31.</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Keep Action-33 open</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s06"><cite>Mark:</cite> was hoping to align work with Kantara, there is a lot of benefit</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we should talk at next call about Action-33</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we start with Action-42</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>Eva:</cite> Action-42 is ongoing<br>
<span id=x052>… action-43 had some feedback, is not very usable for us. Will send email to the list</span><br>
<span id=x053>… note action-43 eva will send email to the list</span></p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to action-43 Have a look a study on aal that might help us.</p>
<p id=x055 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-46</p>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-46.</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-47</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-47.</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s07"><cite>Harsh:</cite> was discussing action-48 on email.</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> maybe put a link to ??</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0021.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0021.html</a></p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> note action-48 add <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0021.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0021.html</a></p>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to action-48 Look into classifications of organisations that could serve as a basis for clsssifying data controllers.</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s04"><cite>Eva:</cite> action-49 did not know how to put the image to the wiki. Do not know where to put it</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s04"><cite>eva:</cite> the boxes where we added &quot;legal grounds&quot; in Vienna</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> under policy would be an option</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> Link it from the taxonomy page</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-50</p>
<p id=x069 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-50.</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-51</p>
<p id=x071 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-51.</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> Action-50 will be treated in the presentation later today</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> suggestion from Javier that I like, will continue to discuss</p>
<p id=x074 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> on mailing-list for further discussion</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> mail for Action 53 (check thread for more conversations) <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0014.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0014.html</a></p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> slides ACTION-54 are here <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0036.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0036.html</a></p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> note action-53 thread with further conversation at  <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0014.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0014.html</a></p>
<p id=x078 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to action-53 Together with harsh, fajar, javier start on a base ontology, suggest a namespace, etc. and start populate the sub-taxonomies, agree on language to model it..</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-54</p>
<p id=x080 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-54.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Bud about the new processiong</h3>
<p id=x082 class="phone s04"><cite>Eva:</cite> screen sharing via webex.</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> processing operations</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s04"><cite>Eva:</cite> images with core processing model sent yesterday as first in the slide deck</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> it is only about processing personal data, then there is processing, only those necessary for the given purpose</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s08"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> also location for processing, do we need the time for processing</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> it is time to store, storage and transfer are special cases of processing<br>
<span id=x089>… lower right corner could also be deletion, then timestamp would be relevant</span></p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> we have temperal elements in SPECIAL</p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> storage location is relevant<br>
<span id=x093>… can be many locations, because of backup etc, also time of storage</span></p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: don't we also need temporal aspects for processing?</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> core purpose for exchange of services or goods, but often things are bundled to make a package deal. Other purposes are not core<br>
<span id=x098>… base consent to multiple purposes, then optional purpose</span><br>
<span id=x099>… than optional additional purposes that are not bundled</span></p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: why is there the distinction between base and additional consent?</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s05"><cite>Bud:</cite> what is the relation between purpose and data, does addtional purpose mean additional data or same data?</p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s06"><cite>Mark:</cite> time period for consent and time for data retention</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Mark: time period for consent?</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s06"><cite>Mark:</cite> update consent which is linked to data retention in GDPR<br>
<span id=x106>… ⇒ slides will be sent to the list after the meeting</span></p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: I think that legal ground needs a temporal dimension (at least law or consent)</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s08"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we discussed purposes in meeting with harsh</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s07"><cite>harsh:</cite> started discussion on mailing-list</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0041.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0041.html</a></p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s08"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we wanted to insantiate purposes</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> described on the wiki <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data#High-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data#High-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29</a></p>
<p id=x114 class="phone s08"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> ⇒ discussion on purposes</p>
<p id=x115 class="phone s04"><cite>eva:</cite> suggest to raise this as an issue</p>
<p id=x118 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> core purpose, without this, no service can be provided<br>
<span id=x119>… research etc</span></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel And Bert to collect ACTIONS and emails to be discussed in subsequent calls</p>
<p id=x121 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-56 - And bert to collect actions and emails to be discussed in subsequent calls [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-12-18].</p>
<p id=x123 class="phone s09"><cite>dlewis:</cite> good start, logic and high level makes sense, just wondering about the distinction between optimization and optimization for the client that I would call personalization</p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s08"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> we may make the distinction, server of consumer side</p>
<p id=x126 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Dave: personalisation is an optimization for a single data subject</p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s08"><cite>AxelPollleres:</cite> discussion about the optimization term<br>
<span id=x132>… optimization for service or optimization for data subject</span></p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> local language can be considered personalisation, but affects more than a single consumer, but is not optimization</p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s09"><cite>dlewis:</cite> what is an optimization anyway, how to distinguish from other functionalities</p>
<p id=x135 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: local language can be considered personalisation, but affects more than a single consumer, but is not optimization</p>
<p id=x136 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> We should create an issue and discuss this later/in mails. (conscious of time)</p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> (thanks for call I have to drop )</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to start definitionsions of the high-level purposes at <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data#High-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data#High-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29</a> and map them to purposes collected from use cases</p>
<p id=x141 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-57 - Start definitionsions of the high-level purposes at <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/purposes_for_handling_personal_data#high-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>purposes_for_handling_personal_data#high-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29</a> and map them to purposes collected from use cases [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2018-12-18].</p>
<p id=x142 class=irc><cite>&lt;MarkL&gt;</cite> great work everyone -- great to see this am looking forward to contributing..</p>
<p id=x143 class="phone s09"><cite>dlewis:</cite> next meeting 8 Jan?</p>
<p id=x144 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> suggest we target that date?</p>
<p id=x145 class="phone s10"><cite>Bert:</cite> will be available on 8 Jan</p>
<p id=x146 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> season's greetings....</p>
<p id=x147 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Bert is available to char on 8th.</p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s03"><cite>Axel:</cite> adjourned</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Axel And Bert to collect ACTIONS and emails to be discussed in subsequent calls</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">harsh to start definitionsions of the high-level purposes at https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data#High-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29 and map them to purposes collected from use cases</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve minutes rom F2F, cf. https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0042.html</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
