<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 24 AUG 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>24 AUG 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0/20230824T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/08/24-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Risk Assessment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Data Breach / Incidents</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DGA extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPV v1.1</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">Associating rights with legal basis</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">resolving DPV-PD location</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Scoring as Decision</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Modelling PII</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Sensitivity of Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Assessment concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Alignment with EUVOC</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Establishment and Lead SA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">Information Availability</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t14">Extend scope to Non-Personal Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t15">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-08-24">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-08-24</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Risk Assessment</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a></p>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">Issue 104</a></strong> Re-evaluate Risk Assessment concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [application] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>Concepts for risk assessment are accepted.</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>For indicating potential consequences arising from an incident, <code>Risk</code> should be used (for all potential events). So it would be the potential risk of those consequences.</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Concepts for Risk Management are to be developed and proposed by incorporating accepted risk assessment concepts. See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a>.</p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong> Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a> risk assessment concepts have been accepted and will be added to risk extension in the next update.</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104#issuecomment-1692275754">comment</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Data Breach / Incidents</h3>
<p id=x022 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">#103</a></p>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">Issue 103</a></strong> Guide for Data Breach (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [concepts] [todo] [application]</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>For the Data Breach and Incident guide, the accepted risk assessment concepts are to be used to update the content and examples.</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>georg and paul have given the okay for the guide and concepts (pending review item on agenda)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">#103</a> the concepts in <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">#104</a> have been accepted, this guide should be updated by incorporating those</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103#issuecomment-1692278124">comment</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DGA extension</h3>
<p id=x029 class=summary>see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></p>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 62</a></strong> Add DGA concepts (by besteves4) [scope] [concepts] [review]</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary>The concepts have been proposed and reviewed by beatriz, georg, and harsh and are in a stable position to be considered for acceptance</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary>Of the concepts, some have been retained to be in the DGA extension, others have been added to various DPV extensions. These will be documented and integrated into their respective taxonomies.</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>For the documentation and addition of these, a separate spreadsheet has been created. See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/105">#105</a> for documentation.</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/105">Issue 105</a></strong> Generate documentation for proposed DGA concepts (by ghurlbot) [documentation] [todo]</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting, and are to be integrated into the DPV taxonomies</p>
<p id=x036 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62#issuecomment-1692282516">comment</a></p>
<p id=x037 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/105">#105</a> Concepts in <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a> have been accepted in today's meeting; the documentation should be generated based on those. For reference, link to the article preprint by Beatriz et al.</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/105#issuecomment-1692283225">comment</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DPV v1.1</h3>
<h4 id=t05>Associating rights with legal basis</h4>
<p id=x041 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">#49</a></p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">Issue 49</a></strong> Provide association and applicability between GDPR legal bases and rights (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [concepts] [todo] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x043 class=summary>Concepts have been accepted.</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49">#49</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/49#issuecomment-1692284468">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t06>resolving DPV-PD location</h4>
<p id=x047 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73">#73</a></p>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73">Issue 73</a></strong> Extend DPV-PD with missing Location concepts (by besteves4) [concepts] [review]</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary>Discussed and agreed the proposed concepts for location (e.g. street) should be accepted, and properties for each concept are not feasible to be considered and there currently not in scope</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73">#73</a> the location concepts in this issue (e.g. street) will be added to DPV-PD taxonomy, the group has agreed that developing properties for each PD concept is not feasible and in scope at this moment</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/73#issuecomment-1692286531">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t07>Scoring as Decision</h4>
<p id=x053 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87">#87</a></p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87">Issue 87</a></strong> Update concepts for Scoring and Decision to cover overlap (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x055 class=summary>The group agrees that these concepts would be useful (for GDPR), but require careful consideration of implications as not every Scoring is a Decision, and moreso an Automated Decision Making.</p>
<p id=x056 class=summary>Current modelling considers Scoring used in Decision to be a consideration for Automated Decision Making. Aim is to model these concepts (Scoring, Decision Making, Automated) and wait for CJEU decision before adding the implication to DPV-GDPR.</p>
<p id=x057 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87">#87</a> this was discussed in today's meeting with the conclusion that concepts to represent Scoring and Decision Making should be present in DPV, but to wait for the CJEU decision before adding the implication of Automation to DPV-GDPR</p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/87#issuecomment-1692289706">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t08>Modelling PII</h4>
<p id=x060 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">#14</a></p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">Issue 14</a></strong> Indicating PII i.e. Personally Identifiable data category or categories in combination (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [question] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x062 class=summary>Concepts have been accepted</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">#14</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14#issuecomment-1692290823">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t09>Sensitivity of Data</h4>
<p id=x066 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">#11</a></p>
<p id=x067 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">Issue 11</a></strong> Express 'sensitivity' of data (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [question] [review]</p>
<p id=x068 class=summary>The group has discussed the modelling of sensitivity, and has agreed to add <code>DataSensitivityLevel</code> as a concept and its relation <code>hasDataSensitivity</code> to DPV since sensitivity is an industry practice.</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary>See <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/compliance/assurance/assurance-data-classification-and-labels">https://<wbr>learn.microsoft.com/<wbr>en-us/<wbr>compliance/<wbr>assurance/<wbr>assurance-data-classification-and-labels</a> example from Microsoft</p>
<p id=x070 class=summary>See <a href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs/sensitivity-risk-calculation">https://<wbr>cloud.google.com/<wbr>dlp/<wbr>docs/<wbr>sensitivity-risk-calculation</a> example from Google</p>
<p id=x071 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">#11</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting but to be modelled as <code>DataSensitivityLevel</code> and <code>hasDataSensitivity</code> relation</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11#issuecomment-1692293400">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t10>Assessment concepts</h4>
<p id=x074 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">#96</a></p>
<p id=x075 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">Issue 96</a></strong> Add assessment relations and concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x076 class=summary>Group has accepted the assessment concepts</p>
<p id=x077 class=summary>georg would like to review whether all required assessments from GDPR have been covered</p>
<p id=x078 class=summary>Upon analysis by georg, relevant concepts will be added to DPV-GDPR based</p>
<p id=x079 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">#96</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting</p>
<p id=x080 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96#issuecomment-1692294686">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t11>Alignment with EUVOC</h4>
<p id=x082 class=summary>The decision to continue with DPV's modelling of location and jurisdictional concepts has been accepted in the interest of continued progress. If in the future we identify a better vocabulary or how to link with EUVOC, the existing work will incorporate these.</p>
<p id=x083 class=summary>For consideration, the proposed remodelling also affects this work by separating the locations and jurisdiction specific concepts into different extensions. Locations would be in one extension, and the legal concepts would be in their respective jurisdiction specific extension, e.g. GDPR authorities would be in GDPR, Irish authority would be in Irish extension and so on.</p>
<p id=x084 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">#46</a></p>
<p id=x085 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">Issue 46</a></strong> Use/Align with EU location vocabularies (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [scope] [concepts] [todo]</p>
<p id=x086 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">#46</a> the group agreed in today's meeting to continue with DPV's modelling of location</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46#issuecomment-1692297850">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t12>Establishment and Lead SA</h4>
<p id=x089 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">#93</a></p>
<p id=x090 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">Issue 93</a></strong> Representing Main Establishment and Lead SA as a concept (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [help-wanted]</p>
<p id=x091 class=summary>concepts have been accepted to be added to DPV-GDPR</p>
<p id=x092 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93">#93</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting and will be added to DPV-GDPR</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/93#issuecomment-1692298662">comment</a></p>
<h4 id=t13>Information Availability</h4>
<p id=x095 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102">#102</a></p>
<p id=x096 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102">Issue 102</a></strong> Add information availability concepts (by coolharsh55) [concepts] [review]</p>
<p id=x097 class=summary>group has discussed and accepted the proposed concepts</p>
<p id=x098 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102">#102</a> concepts have been accepted in today's meeting</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/102#issuecomment-1692299277">comment</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t14>Extend scope to Non-Personal Data</h3>
<p id=x101 class=summary>The responses received so far (4 yes) indicate acceptance, but the number is low. No objections so far. This will likely be accepted, and will be discussed in the next meeting.</p>
<p id=x102 class=summary>See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">#99</a></p>
<p id=x103 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (by coolharsh55) [scope] [concepts] [question]</p>
<p id=x104 class=summary>Note <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">#99</a> the group discussed the responses received so far, and will summarise the decision in the next meeting</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Added <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99#issuecomment-1692301043">comment</a></p>
<p id=x106 class=summary>This will be taken up with the proposed reorganisation, see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">#107</a></p>
<p id=x107 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/107">Issue 107</a></strong> Restructure repo layout (by coolharsh55) [documentation] [question]</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x109 class=summary>The next meeting will be in 1 week, on 31 AUG 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST</p>
<p id=x114 class=summary>gb, bye</p>
<p id=x115 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> gb has left #dpvcg</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
