<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 20 APR 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>20 APR 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Apr/0010.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/04/20-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>:, beatriz, georg, harsh, jan, mark, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Fixes to Processing concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Accountability and related concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Fixes to Processing concepts</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>Removed concept ~MatchingCombining~ from Processing Context module, and added   ~Match~ as a processing operation. ~Combine~ already exists as a processing   operation. This provides consistency in processing operations, and   distinction from context (e.g. automated decision making can be involved in   any processing operation, whereas match/combine are types of processing   operations). This is relevant for A.35 DPIA as specified by A29WP guidelines.</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>- Added concept ~Generate~ as a processing operation to distinguish when data is   generated or created without deriving it from existing data or collecting it   from another source. E.g. an identifier created and assigned to an individual   is generated data, as it is not any of: collect, derive, etc. ~Generate~ is a   subclass of ~Obtain~.</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>Added concept ~Infer~ to correspond with data categories ~InferredPersonalData~</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>  and provide distinction from Derive as in obtain from existing data, and infer</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>  as in obtain without any correlation or existence from existing data.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Accountability and related concepts</h3>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Session chaired by paul and georg</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Discussion on ICO Accountability Framework <a href="https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/accountability-framework/">https://<wbr>ico.org.uk/<wbr>for-organisations/<wbr>accountability-framework/</a></p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> Recent paper investigating accountability with ROPA data. Title: &quot;Support for Enhanced GDPR Accountability with the Common Semantic Model for ROPA (CSM-ROPA)&quot; <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-022-01099-9">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.1007/<wbr>s42979-022-01099-9</a><br>
<span id=x020>… ICO accountability framework is a collection of questions, some of which are related to GDPR clauses, and others related to management activities. DPV could be used for some of these.</span></p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>jan:</cite> email (<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Apr/0024.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2022Apr/<wbr>0024.html</a>) enquiring how entities are supposed to exchange and reuse ROPA data</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> It isn't advisable to directly use someone else's data, for legal and accountability reasons. Instead, the data would be integrated or copied into the organisation's ROPA. E.g. Controller takes Processor's implemented technical measures.</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>paul:</cite> Accountability concepts that have been met needs to be specified - automatically populating this information would be of value</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> Julian proposed the property <code>isRequiredFor</code> to specify a concept is required for some accountability concept</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> I would suggest doing it the other way around, specifying an accountability concept is linked to a concept and specify what is the association e.g. is necessary to be carried out, to be declared, exists, etc. This is because the property <code>isRequiredFor</code> doesn't indicate what the requirement is, and whether its conditional or has obligations. This restricts the usefulness of that linking.<br>
<span id=x027>… Discussion on what this work means for DPVCG.</span></p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> We could identify concepts e.g. PolicyForDataProtectionTraining as an OrganisationalMeasure, but there will also be a gap in how the organisation implements that concept e.g. are these policies readily available.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> We could indicate what concepts are needed for another concept, such as concepts for policy in ICO Accountability Tracker, which would be of use to help organisations complete the framework.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x032 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> We will meet again next week WED APR-27 14:00 CEST<br>
<span id=x033>… Topics for discussion will be proposed Technology concepts, association of ISO and other standards to DPV concepts, and anything else that ends up on the mailing list.</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
