<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 18 June 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>18 June 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/06/18-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>bud, Elmar, Fajar, Harsh, Ramisa</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh_</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>ElmarK</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Vote to publish DPVCG as a public CG working draft</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Axel's comments on the working draft.</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Vote to publish DPVCG as a public CG working draft</h3>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> ElmarK to send a pull request to harsh_ with minor fixes (typos, full names)</p>
<p id=x011 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'ElmarK'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x012 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Any other issues/comments?</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Axel's comments on the working draft.</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>Regarding the missing figure, Harsh was hoping that Bert would be in the call. We will have to check with him regarding relative links.</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>Bert proposed to link to GitHub repository for the individual modules and host them there.</p>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> +1's for vote if agree</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x020 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Thanks, we can accept this suggestion</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>Draft:</cite> <a href="https://dpvcg.github.io/extract-sheets/index.html">https://<wbr>dpvcg.github.io/<wbr>extract-sheets/<wbr>index.html</a><br>
<span id=x024>… We can go ahead with NACE vocabulary as is.</span></p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>Fajar:</cite> is there any complete example that integrates all modules/aspects?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>Harsh:</cite> we need a use cases section that shows how the vocabulary can be used.<br>
<span id=x028>… We'll publish the working draft and later add use cases,..</span></p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Describe use-cases and examples showing how the vocabulary should be or can be used</p>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-26 - Describe use-cases and examples showing how the vocabulary should be or can be used.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/26/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>26/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s03"><cite>Harsh:</cite> How much time should we leave for comments?<br>
<span id=x033>… Axel suggested 1 month.</span></p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>Harsh:</cite> we can always extend it.<br>
<span id=x037>… 1 month ok for everyone?</span><br>
<span id=x038>… +1</span></p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Accepted 1 month for comments on vocab</p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Discuss accompanying primer document</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-27 - Discuss accompanying primer document.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/27/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>27/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>Harsh:</cite> How are we going to process comments. We included multiple options, which ones should we allow.<br>
<span id=x049>… Suggestion harsh_: Comments are welcome everywhere, but formal requests should be filed via the mailing list.</span><br>
<span id=x050>… +1</span></p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;bud&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>Accepted:</cite> have multiple channels for comments, but formal requests for extension should be sent via Email.</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s03"><cite>Harsh:</cite> Is it ok to create a separate repository on GitHub for the vocabulary (just for the RDF and HTML, not for the code that generates it, keep those separate)<br>
<span id=x061>… Should be better organized that way.</span><br>
<span id=x062>… +1</span><br>
<span id=x063>… Right now we have several repositories. We could remove those and have one repository that has all the vocabularies and the documentation. So everything that is hosted on the w3c website should be there.</span><br>
<span id=x064>… Proposal is to clean up the repository to make it easier for people to comment on GitHub.</span><br>
<span id=x065>… Separate repositories for each namespace or all vocabularies in one repository?</span></p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s02"><cite>Fajar:</cite> In favor of having separate repositories.</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> So we should have three repositories: dpv, dpv-nace, dpv-gdpr ?</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s02"><cite>Fajar:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Or one repository for all three?</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s05"><cite>Vote:</cite> Shall we have 3 separate repositories?</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s05"><cite>Vote:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> @axelpolleres online? would appreciate comments on this-</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> what again is the question?</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> So we should have three repositories: dpv, dpv-nace, dpv-gdpr ? Or one repository for all vocabularies?</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s05"><cite>Vote:</cite> (repositories on GitHub)</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> what is meant by &quot;repositories&quot;? on git?</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s05"><cite>Vote:</cite> (repositories on GitHub)</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Yes, how we organise them on Github</p>
<p id=x080 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> no strong opinions</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Okay, let's go with general consensus</p>
<p id=x082 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> kk</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> separate repositories for each vocab as agreed</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s06"><cite>Decision:</cite> to have three GitHub repositories: dpv, dpv-nace, dpv-gdpr</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh_ to update the document according to today's agreement.</p>
<p id=x086 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'harsh_'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh_ to clean up/restructure the GitHub repository according to today's agreement.</p>
<p id=x088 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'harsh_'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to update the document according to today's agreement.</p>
<p id=x090 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-120 - Update the document according to today's agreement. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-06-25].</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to clean up/restructure the GitHub repository according to today's agreement.</p>
<p id=x092 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-121 - Clean up/restructure the github repository according to today's agreement. [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-06-25].</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> elmar to send a pull request to harsh_ with minor fixes (typos, full names)</p>
<p id=x094 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-122 - Send a pull request to harsh_ with minor fixes (typos, full names) [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-06-25].</p>
<p id=x095 class="phone s06"><cite>Decision:</cite> Harsh suggests that one of the chairs should send the published draft to the semantic web mailing list once published.</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh_&gt;</cite> Welcoming comments/feedback</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s07"><cite>Timeline:</cite> Harsh will send final version to Bert; by the end of the week a first draft can be published.<br>
<span id=x099>… Decision on next call will be made via the mailing list.</span></p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> FWIW, I see no resolution(s) ... did you vote to publish?</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> (sorry, just reading with one eye)</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">ElmarK to send a pull request to harsh_ with minor fixes (typos, full names)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">harsh_ to update the document according to today's agreement.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">harsh_ to clean up/restructure the GitHub repository according to today's agreement.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">harsh to update the document according to today's agreement.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">harsh to clean up/restructure the GitHub repository according to today's agreement.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">elmar to send a pull request to harsh_ with minor fixes (typos, full names)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">Describe use-cases and examples showing how the vocabulary should be or can be used</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">Discuss accompanying primer document</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
