<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 20 MAR 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>20 MAR 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240320T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>art, beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, steve, ted, tytti</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Workshop at SEMANTiCS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">GDPR Rights Justifications</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">Modelling Complaints</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">AI Incident Reporting</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">No updates</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Website for DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Data Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Data Breach Reporting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-03-20">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-03-20</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Workshop at SEMANTiCS</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary> link to CFP <a href="https://2024-eu.semantics.cc/page/cfp_ws">https://<wbr>2024-eu.semantics.cc/<wbr>page/<wbr>cfp_ws</a> deadline is MAR-22</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> interested people please reach out to help organise/review/etc.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>GDPR Rights Justifications</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> no updates, requires implementation and integration in to the DPV code/specs</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> might have more suggestions based on tooling support being implemented in Signatu. </p>
<h4 id=t03>Modelling Complaints</h4>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> if a right exercise is requested, and not completed by a Controller, then the data subject complaints - These complaints should also be modelled e.g. right was not exercised</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> when should we go to regulators to show the work?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> is this a list/vocabulary of complaint concepts e.g. right exercise not completed, consent not valid? or the information in the complaint?</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> the first should be the priority</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is expanding the scope of the group - so we should discuss a) it is useful? b) how much should we think about / prioritise at the moment? c) who will be implementing/working on this?</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> this will make the DPV useful but we don't need to prioritise </p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> we don't have the capacity to do this, but would be good to have funding - happy to support this </p>
<h4 id=t04>AI Incident Reporting</h4>
<p id=x025 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> obligation to report risks to the Provider under the AI Act - will this be relevant to that? There is information exchange regarding risks and incidents, maybe some more stuff in the liability directive as well?</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s05"><cite>art:</cite> incident report in general?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> complaint as a list of issues, CVE like system</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>No updates</h3>
<p id=x029 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> no updates for AI Act</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> no updates for TOM proposals - still open for reviewing</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> no updates for DPV Resource paper</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Website for DPV</h3>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> has funding for the domain name</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>Delaram:</cite> who is going to create it and maintain it?</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> me (probably) - if so then I plan to keep it simple e.g. <a href="https://solidproject.org/">https://<wbr>solidproject.org/</a> as the template for what info to provide</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> no objections, some positive responses - so lets discuss further when we have an example</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Data Act</h3>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> Data Act defines new data sharing contracts between data holders and data users who may not be data subjects, and can be to third parties as recipients and for public bodies, and mentions data processing services which you can select/switch. There is mention of interoperability standards which can come from EU SDOs. Can we be such a SDO?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> no, these are CEN/CENELEC, ETSI, etc. and national standards authorities. We'd have to go through formal processes at W3C, IEEE, etc. which is difficult if the work is not 'global' in scope/nature</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> what about SEMIC?</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Good idea from EU policy view, they are not a SDO, but we'd be making a conscious choice about the work focusing (only) on EU considerations</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Data Breach Reporting</h3>
<p id=x043 class="phone s02"><cite>georg:</cite> EDPB collection of data breach reporting across DPAs <a href="https://www.edpb.europa.eu/notify-data-breach_en">https://<wbr>www.edpb.europa.eu/<wbr>notify-data-breach_en</a> </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x045 class=summary> Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED MAR-27 15:00 WET / 16:00 CET.</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary> Topics for discussion are</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> 1) Rights Justification - finalise output and produce documentation - beatriz, harsh</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> 2) AI Act and Tech concepts by delaram - identify 'simple' subset of concepts to add, start work on AIRO and VAIR integrations</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> 3) TOMs by harsh - to resolve the proposed concepts</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> 4) w3id config update by harsh</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> 5) github issues update by harsh</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary> 6) dpv marketing page by harsh</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary> 7) dpv resource paper</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
