<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 12 September 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>12 September 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/09/12-odrl-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>acimmino, beatriz_esteves, GabrielHuecas, Jcano, Nicoletta, Shoeil_R, victor</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>@victor, victor</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x005 class=summary>this meeting is ODRL at TPAC</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>Gabriel:</cite> participation in Fiware, GaiaX, slow development</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>Andrea:</cite> EU funded project AURORAL</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s03"><cite>Juan:</cite> In Andrea's team</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s04"><cite>Nicoletta:</cite> formal model to check compliance to ODRL policy</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s04"><cite>Nicoletta:</cite> temporal evolution of state of policies.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s05"><cite>Soheil:</cite> PhD student supervised by Nicoletta, working as a team<br>
<span id=x021>â€¦ scribe @victor</span></p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Beatriz: PhD student at UPM</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Beatriz: Future ODRL needs Formal semantics</p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Gabriel: +1</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Andrea: validation, conformance, compliance, standard behaviour on certain policies</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Soheil: odrl represent actions as classes</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: There are different use cases, very different. Survey of uses would be of interest.</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: I am interested if there has been IN THE PAST a violation; Access Control is slightly different, because violations cannot happen.</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: documentation must answer the question &quot;how can ODRL be used?&quot;</p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: <a href="https://github.com/w3c/odrl/blob/master/formal-semantics/Compliance%20checking%20ODRL%20policies.md">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>odrl/<wbr>blob/<wbr>master/<wbr>formal-semantics/<wbr>Compliance%20checking%20ODRL%20policies.md</a></p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Victor: presents history of odrl</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Victor: on the convenience of having regular meeting, or how to continue</p>
<p id=x036 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> victor: need to define software artifacts and their behaviours, test beds, conformance</p>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Andrea: equivalent tests were made in the IoT system</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/participate/implementation">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>participate/<wbr>implementation</a></p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: we have two tasks ahead, describing the representation and implementing the behaviour.</p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Victor: current specs are still poor <a href="https://w3c.github.io/odrl/formal-semantics/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>odrl/<wbr>formal-semantics/</a></p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Victor: we need the help of others</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Piero Bonatti <a href="https://www.docenti.unina.it/webdocenti-be/allegati/contenuti/1487368">https://<wbr>www.docenti.unina.it/<wbr>webdocenti-be/<wbr>allegati/<wbr>contenuti/<wbr>1487368</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Victor: but we need further development</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: ok, lets meet again, but action on Beatriz to describe the Access Control scenario</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta which is not the same as the Policy Monitoring scenario</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Andrea: presents some slides</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Andrea: AURORAL project. (see slides)</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Soheil: is there any blockchain in here?</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Andra: no, there isnt, this would be a different use case.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: in some cases strict access control is not the best choice</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: for example access control to medical records, may save lives if the official permission system is overriden in case of emergency</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: violations are in some situations very useful!</p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> Nicoletta: congrats for your presentation</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> to create new use cases</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> next Formal Semantics meeting after this progress has been verified</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;victor&gt;</cite> end this meeting</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">to create new use cases</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">next Formal Semantics meeting after this progress has been verified</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
