<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call 03 Feb 2021 &ndash; 03 Feb 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call 03 Feb 2021</h1>
<h2>03 Feb 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Jan/0021.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/02/03-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, davidhickey, delaram, harsh, julio, nishad, paulryan, rana</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgkrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Introductions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV, DPV-GDPR published</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV Adoption page in Wiki - updates from volunteers</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Going through open issues, actions on tracker and GitHub</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">DPV presented at Legal Hackathon by beatriz</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Presentation on DPV use by paul</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Introductions</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>new members, first time attendees</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV, DPV-GDPR published</h3>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> fixes, typos, text - submitted on GitHub</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>paulryan:</cite> went through Primer document</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV Adoption page in Wiki - updates from volunteers</h3>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> looking on Google Scholar for papers mentioning DPV</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> few mention it but don't use, others do use it - so descriptions contain brief summary of what is being used</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s03"><cite>julio:</cite> found a paper which I think is about evaluation - paper by Nishad about MetaProfiles. Question: is this evaluation?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s04"><cite>nishad:</cite> paper compares DPV for a scenario, so it should be counted as evaluation in terms of sufficiency</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Going through open issues, actions on tracker and GitHub</h3>
<p id=x020 class="phone s04"><cite>nishad:</cite> Please go through open issues, actions, and try to take up things of interest</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>DPV presented at Legal Hackathon by beatriz</h3>
<p id=x022 class="phone s04"><cite>nishad:</cite> mailing list: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2021Jan/0020.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2021Jan/<wbr>0020.html</a></p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Presented at ANCR - Advanced Notice and Consent Receipt working group in Kantara</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> They want to produce v2 of Consent Receipt</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> They want interoperability between groups, and people can join and work on this</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> presentation went well, few questions about availability and GitHub</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> The vocabulary provided by DPV is relevant for producing the kind of interoperable data they want<br>
<span id=x029>… link to wiki for ANCR: <a href="https://kantarainitiative.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=140804260">https://<wbr>kantarainitiative.org/<wbr>confluence/<wbr>pages/<wbr>viewpage.action?pageId=140804260</a></span></p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>beatriz:</cite> starting work this week, plan to have v2 in 6 months</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> I'm involved in the PaE:CG project which is related to this work and also about consent receipts</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> We'll be proposing the consent receipt fields and work back for inclusion in DPV whenever the next iteration happens</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s06"><cite>project:</cite> <a href="https://paecg.github.io/">https://<wbr>paecg.github.io/</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Presentation on DPV use by paul</h3>
<p id=x045 class="phone s06"><cite>project:</cite> Related to GDPR requirements and compliance<br>
<span id=x046>… Specifically about ROPA (Register of Processing Activities) and their information requirements</span><br>
<span id=x047>… Went through guidance and ROPA templates from 14 DPAs</span><br>
<span id=x048>… Created a combined model representing all ROPAs, Matched concepts with DPV for sufficiency</span><br>
<span id=x049>… Mapping outcome: none, exact, complex, partial</span><br>
<span id=x050>… Contributed terms back into DPV - see new terms in v0.2</span><br>
<span id=x051>… Next work relates to accountability using CSM-ROPA (common semantic model of ROPA)</span><br>
<span id=x052>… Evaluates extent of CSM-ROPA to express ROPA in ICO accountability tracker</span><br>
<span id=x053>… Shows how DPV is used and is useful in cases towards legal compliance procedures</span><br>
<span id=x054>… next step is building a catalogue of data processing activities and processes (etc.) and building compliance tools on top of that</span><br>
<span id=x055>… Q&amp;A + discussion session</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x058 class="phone s06"><cite>project:</cite> In 2 weeks, on 17th Feb at 13:00 WET / 14:00 CET<br>
<span id=x059>… We will have rana present her work on annotating a corpus of tweets using DPV</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
