<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG ftf day 1 &ndash; 04 April 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG ftf day 1</h1>
<h2>04 April 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/04/04-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>axelpolleres, Bert, simonstey</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>simonstey, simon steyskal</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">breakout TechnicalOrganisationalMeasures</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">1) PersonalData</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">2) Legal Basis (Bud)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">3) Technical &amp; Organisational Measures</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">4) Processing Categories</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">5) Purposes</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">6) Consent</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> are we having a webex call as well?</p>
<p id=x003 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> no webex.</p>
<p id=x004 class=summary>can you call again harsh?</p>
<p id=x005 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> calling</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> unfortunately, the opensuse distribution f'cked up the ekiga package. That means I have no H.323 implementation</p>
<p id=x007 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> have to restart now, CU</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> a32 says Security of Processing</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> overall ontology was inspired by the image sent around by axel<br>
<span id=x021>… it shows the anchor points</span><br>
<span id=x022>… [axel explains the individual top concepts]</span><br>
<span id=x023>… if you comment on which articles are involved we may want to amend their definition</span><br>
<span id=x024>… for now we have several top concepts (for data controller we dont have a respective property yet)</span></p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>javier:</cite> for properties you have domain/range, for classes the type hierarchy<br>
<span id=x029>… a list of related terms, the source ontology</span><br>
<span id=x030>… for each of the terms you should also note the date it was added (e.g. 4.4 for today)</span></p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> the idea of having a single ontology is that this allows for easier integration</p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: We will use <a href="http://www.w3.org/ns/priv">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>ns/<wbr>priv</a> as the main namespace, if avialable, otherwise <a href="https://w3id.org/priv/">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>priv/</a></p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> [discussing namespace issues]</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>simonstey:</cite> &quot;main ns&quot; as in only ns, or as in base namespace</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> we want to get a stable version out</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>Bud:</cite> Privacy vs. Protection?<br>
<span id=x038>… I prefer protection over privacy, as privacy comes more from &quot;invading personal space&quot; and data protection is more broader</span></p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>mark:</cite> what about data protection for privacy?</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> this affects the ns discussion if we change that<br>
<span id=x042>… well the group was always called data PRIVACY voc. ...</span></p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> wait.. I thought it's protection<br>
<span id=x047>… data protection protects both article 7 and 8 of the european [?]</span><br>
<span id=x048>… but only art. 7 is about privacy</span><br>
<span id=x049>… in the communities I'm involved in, they always use data protection</span></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> there was this other working group/workshop martin kunze attended<br>
<span id=x052>… that mentioned privacy</span></p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s05"><cite>mark:</cite> it's a very weird topic.. but the GDPR uses both protection and privacy</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> maybe not fix the ns acronym to priv yet</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> what's the scope of e.g. the legal basis part?<br>
<span id=x057>… should it be internationally also?</span></p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I outlined that in the gdoc document<br>
<span id=x060>… <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/edit">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/<wbr>edit</a></span></p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;simonstey&gt;</cite> s/&quot;<a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/edit">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/<wbr>edit</a>&quot;//</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I suggest dpv as the main namespace (for now at least)</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: We will use <a href="http://www.w3.org/ns/dpv">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>ns/<wbr>dpv</a> as the main namespace, standing for data privacy vocabulary, if avialable, otherwise <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/</a></p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +!</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> +0</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> We will use <a href="http://www.w3.org/ns/dpv">http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>ns/<wbr>dpv</a> as the main namespace, standing for data privacy vocabulary, if avialable, otherwise <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/</a></p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> ns/dpv is available on w3id.org</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/perma-id/w3id.org">perma-id/<wbr>w3id.org</a></p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> do we wan't to have subns or just one ns?<br>
<span id=x078>… we'll discuss that later on</span></p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> I propose for separation of contexts for each of the core categories - purposes, processing, legal basis, etc.</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> decide later whether we need sub-namespaces for different subtaxonomies</p>
<p id=x081 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-13 - Decide later whether we need sub-namespaces for different subtaxonomies.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/13/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>13/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> this was my input wrt. base ontology</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> we didn't cover recipients at all<br>
<span id=x085>… only location and purposes</span></p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> [gives example]<br>
<span id=x089>… I didn't put the articles next to the terms (maybe someone who's more familiar with the GDPR could add them)</span><br>
<span id=x090>… i.e. the article that defines them</span></p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> controller is 4.7, 4.9 is recipient, 4.10 is 3rdparty</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> data subject is also A4.1</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Discussion on whether we should rename the properties for class XYZ &quot;hasXYZ&quot;</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Simonstey: arguing that hsXYZ is a common convention for ObjectProperties</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Also benefits inverse properties - hasXYZ &lt;⟶ isXYZof</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s03"><cite>simonstey:</cite> we might have to change the names of properties to make them different from the class names<br>
<span id=x100>… e.g. dpv:purpose &lt;→ dpv:Purpose only differs in the lower/uppercase P</span><br>
<span id=x101>… which is a problem for languages where there isn't a lower/upper case (i.e. chinese)</span></p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: use &quot;hasXYZ&quot; (and &quot;isXYZof&quot; in case we need inverses) as property names convention</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s03"><cite>simonstey:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: use &quot;hasXYZ&quot; (and &quot;isXYZof&quot; in case we need inverses) as property names convention for ObjectProperties to avoid clashes with (Object-)Class names</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +!</p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x109 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=x111 class="phone s03"><cite>simonstey:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> use &quot;hasXYZ&quot; (and &quot;isXYZof&quot; in case we need inverses) as property names convention for ObjectProperties to avoid clashes with (Object-)Class names</p>
<p id=x117 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> legal ground should be called legal basis (that's used by the GDPR too)<br>
<span id=x118>… [everyone nodds]</span></p>
<p id=x119 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> at the start we discussed technicalorganisationalmeasures</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> the main means involved in the GDPR are technical&amp;organ. measures</p>
<p id=x123 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> I would prefer to have small groups for the individual sessions<br>
<span id=x124>… and maybe discuss them tmrw then together</span><br>
<span id=x125>… the ordering was purely based on getting the groups together according to the indicated interests</span></p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> what vocabs do we have to fit in for defining consent?<br>
<span id=x129>… i would imagine the action (what triggered the consent request)</span><br>
<span id=x130>… basically, I want to know how to hook the whole thing into the main vocab</span></p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> when working on the consent receipt it covers all the points mentioned</p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s05"><cite>mark:</cite> one of the big issues wrt. consent receipt is e.g., involved other parties (delegation),<br>
<span id=x137>… I think we should make a table in the spreadsheet, where we'll capture terms relevant on describing how consent was received</span><br>
<span id=x138>… the state of consent (it changes)</span><br>
<span id=x139>… how does it relate to practice (how people use it)</span><br>
<span id=x140>… (missing the 2nd order mentioned by mark)</span></p>
<p id=x142 class="phone s05"><cite>mark:</cite> it's very difficult to talk about consent without talking about notice<br>
<span id=x143>… identity, notice, recipient are the main parts</span></p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> before we start the coffee break<br>
<span id=x148>… are we all on the same page?</span><br>
<span id=x149>… is github in sync with wiki?</span></p>
<p id=x150 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> yes</p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> Purposes consolidation: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/15pGTjVJLj2lP2x4njcwJo4aGjeGdi0y-_ppxZaoV8xU/edit#">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>15pGTjVJLj2lP2x4njcwJo4aGjeGdi0y-_ppxZaoV8xU/<wbr>edit#</a></p>
<p id=x152 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> e.g. purposes on github reflect the results of our last discussion on purposes</p>
<p id=x153 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> Purposes discussion: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/15pGTjVJLj2lP2x4njcwJo4aGjeGdi0y-_ppxZaoV8xU/edit?usp=sharing">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>15pGTjVJLj2lP2x4njcwJo4aGjeGdi0y-_ppxZaoV8xU/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing</a></p>
<p id=x154 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> the github repos are linked to from the wiki pages</p>
<p id=x157 class="phone s05"><cite>mark:</cite> I think we need to clarify what's standardizable<br>
<span id=x158>… it's a w3c group, but we are working on stuff related to the GDPR</span><br>
<span id=x159>… i.e. international scope vs. eu scope</span></p>
<p id=x160 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Put on tomorrow's agenda the Internet scope/wider scope of the group.</p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s05"><cite>mark:</cite> we should clarify/discuss this</p>
<p id=x162 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh/Mark: GDPR is a good stepping stone, covering many also non-european use cases, but maybe not.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> put internet scope/wider scope on the agenda tomorrow.</p>
<p id=x164 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'put'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to put internet scope/wider scope on the agenda tomorrow.</p>
<p id=x166 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-81 - Put internet scope/wider scope on the agenda tomorrow. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-11].</p>
<p id=x168 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> maybe declare everything as OWL/SKOS/RDFS<br>
<span id=x169>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/ns/odrl/2/ODRL22.ttl">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>ns/<wbr>odrl/<wbr>2/<wbr>ODRL22.ttl</a></span></p>
<p id=x170 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> HArsh's proposal: We declare all our concepts/terms as owl:classes, skos:Concepts and rdfs:classes.</p>
<p id=x171 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> We could represent the hierarchy as either skos or OWL... i.e. we could have a .owl version of the vob and a .skos version?</p>
<p id=x172 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> example: ODRL 2.2 has this model <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/odrl-model/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>odrl-model/</a></p>
<p id=x173 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> &quot;All new classes (rdfs:Class, owl:Class), properties (rdf:Property, owl:ObjectProperty), and instances (owl:NamedIndividual) must also be defined as a skos:Concept. Appropriate rdfs:domain and rdfs:range should also be defined for classes.&quot;</p>
<p id=x174 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Counter-proposal: only have a RDFS ontology (do we need the complexity of OWL?)</p>
<p id=x180 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> &quot;Similarly, SKOS does not assume that hierarchical relations are by default irreflexive. In many thesaurus guidelines, it is prohibited to have a concept broader than itself. However, in specific cases beyond classical thesauri, some reflexive skos:broader statements may occur. Consider the conversion of an existing RDFS/OWL ontology into a SKOS concept scheme. In such a case, it is legitimate that every rdfs:subClassOf statement will be re-interpreted[CUT]<br>
<span id=x181>… However, rdfs:subClassOf is a reflexive property, which means that for every class C, the statement C rdfs:subClassOf C is true [OWL]. In this case every concept would therefore have itself among its broader concepts.</span><br>
<span id=x182>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/skos-primer/#sechierarchy">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>skos-primer/#sechierarchy</a></span><br>
<span id=x183>… [discussing SKOS/RDFS/OWL]</span><br>
<span id=x184>… <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/skos-primer/#secskosspecialization">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>skos-primer/#secskosspecialization</a></span><br>
<span id=x185>… [from ireland]: do we need disjoint?</span></p>
<p id=x186 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: we use rdfs:subClassOf/subProrpertyOf for modeling hierarchies, instead of the weaker formalism of SKOS</p>
<p id=x187 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x188 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x189 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +0</p>
<p id=x190 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x191 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x192 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x193 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x194 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=r03 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> we use rdfs:subClassOf/subProrpertyOf for modeling hierarchies, instead of the weaker formalism of SKOS</p>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> we may want to add a non-normative comment in the spec that/how the taxonomy can be used as SKOS.</p>
<p id=x197 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-14 - We may want to add a non-normative comment in the spec that/how the taxonomy can be used as skos..  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/14/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>14/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x198 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> in case we need disjointness, we use OWL.</p>
<p id=x199 class="phone s03"><cite>simonstey:</cite> or SHACL, depending on the use case ;)</p>
<p id=x200 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> one thing we haven't talked about yet was on how to describe the provenance of the terms we use</p>
<p id=x202 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> currently we use rdfs:isDefinedBy<br>
<span id=x203>… from the terms of the gdpr we reference the respective articles</span></p>
<p id=x205 class="phone s03"><cite>simonstey:</cite> if you resolve the IRI you get the definition of the term</p>
<p id=x206 class="phone s06"><cite>harsh:</cite> seeAlso?</p>
<p id=x207 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> provenance: we use rdfs:isdefinedby for the source (e.g. articles of the GDPR),and use rdfs:comment for documenting justifications.</p>
<p id=x208 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> for examples, we can use vann:example (in case needed)</p>
<p id=x209 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> good resource for what to use: <a href="https://dgarijo.github.io/Widoco/doc/bestPractices/index-en.html">https://<wbr>dgarijo.github.io/<wbr>Widoco/<wbr>doc/<wbr>bestPractices/<wbr>index-en.html</a></p>
<p id=x212 class="phone s07"><cite>[rdfs:</cite> comment and/or dc(terms):description discussion]<br>
<span id=x213>… COFFEE BREAK</span><br>
<span id=x214>… <a href="https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28723029/can-i-mix-skos-properties-with-rdfs-properties-to-define-a-class">https://<wbr>stackoverflow.com/<wbr>questions/<wbr>28723029/<wbr>can-i-mix-skos-properties-with-rdfs-properties-to-define-a-class</a> SKOS&lt;→OWL&lt;→RDFS</span></p>
<p id=x215 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> simonstey: how to connect to the polycom system with facetime?</p>
<p id=x216 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Suggestions: since from the breakouts we will likely go to lunch directly: let's reconvene in plenary at 14:00 CEST</p>
<p id=x217 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> secondly: I will open to more chatrooms and invite rrsagent.... 1) #dpvcg_purpose 2) #dpvcg_consent</p>
<p id=x218 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... done, please pick a scribe in each breakout!</p>
<p id=x220 class="phone s07"><cite>[rdfs:</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Feb/0026.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Feb/<wbr>0026.html</a><br>
<span id=x221>… <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=623051">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>newsroom/<wbr>article29/<wbr>item-detail.cfm?item_id=623051</a></span></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fajar to compile the owl file for the NACE r2 codes.</p>
<p id=x223 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-82 - Compile the owl file for the nace r2 codes. [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-04-11].</p>
<p id=x224 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> (needed for purposes)</p>
<p id=x225 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  Summary of the Purpose breakout: we essentially consolidated the hierarchy we started with last time and extended it with a context mechanism to scope the purpose, for instance to activities that belong to a certain business sector, identified by NACE codes.</p>
<p id=x226 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> After lunch parallel sessions:</p>
<p id=x227 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  • Processing Categories: <strong>Simon</strong>, Javier, Fajar, Bud</p>
<p id=x228 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  • Security constraints &amp; Storage constraints: <strong>Axel</strong>, Harsh, Mark, Bert, Ramisa</p>
<p id=x229 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Ready for video link</p>
<p id=x230 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> us too!</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>breakout TechnicalOrganisationalMeasures</h3>
<p id=x232 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Mapping between GDPR and ISO27k (11-2016) <a href="https://www.iso27001security.com/ISO27k_GDPR_mapping_release_1.pdf">https://<wbr>www.iso27001security.com/<wbr>ISO27k_GDPR_mapping_release_1.pdf</a></p>
<p id=x233 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> (GDPR art. 45 item 8 says for the list of EU-like countries to look out for lists published in the Official Journal.)</p>
<p id=x234 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Do we have a link for this list? If not, we should create an Action for it.</p>
<p id=x235 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark: recital 71, 75</p>
<p id=x236 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark: Article 10, Article 6.1</p>
<p id=x237 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> A30-g</p>
<p id=x238 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... Article 30g, 32.1</p>
<p id=x239 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://gdpr-info.eu/art-32-gdpr/">https://<wbr>gdpr-info.eu/<wbr>art-32-gdpr/</a></p>
<p id=x240 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Art. 32 &quot;Security of processing&quot;</p>
<p id=x241 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?qid=1465452422595&amp;uri=CELEX:32016R0679">https://<wbr>eur-lex.europa.eu/<wbr>legal-content/<wbr>EN/<wbr>TXT/?qid=1465452422595&amp;uri=CELEX:32016R0679</a></p>
<p id=x242 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> More relevant articles: R78, R83, A32</p>
<p id=x243 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/edit#">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1Z3Eb5rZjrdWcE5u5o0CYzA_LPyGaTqmg84ecGve_ZLA/<wbr>edit#</a></p>
<p id=x244 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> List of (technical or organisation) measures vs list of risks: which of the two is the primary key?</p>
<p id=x245 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> this depends on whether you want to use it for risk assessment or legal assessment</p>
<p id=x246 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> in the latter case, organisational measures have to correspond to a risk, but in practice they don't and thus you just get a list of n+1 organisational measures</p>
<p id=x247 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> [ rdfs:comment &quot;bblala&quot;]</p>
<p id=x248 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> use Objectproperties only and use this trick to use comments.</p>
<p id=x249 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> 3 alternatives:</p>
<p id=x250 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  [rdfs:comment &quot;bblala&quot;]</p>
<p id=x251 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> [ dpv:standardFollowed URI]</p>
<p id=x252 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> URI</p>
<p id=x253 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Be back after break</p>
<p id=x254 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we muted you for now.</p>
<p id=x255 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> reconvene 16:05</p>
<p id=x256 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> W.r.t. svl:EULike, there is a list of current countries on <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/data-transfers-outside-eu/adequacy-protection-personal-data-non-eu-countries_en">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>info/<wbr>law/<wbr>law-topic/<wbr>data-protection/<wbr>data-transfers-outside-eu/<wbr>adequacy-protection-personal-data-non-eu-countries_en</a></p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> HArsh, (with the help/review) of Axel, put results of the TechnicalOrganisationalMeasures session to thespreadsheet.</p>
<p id=x258 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'HArsh,'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to (with the help/review) of Axel, put results of the TechnicalOrganisationalMeasures session to thespreadsheet</p>
<p id=x260 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-83 - (with the help/review) of axel, put results of the technicalorganisationalmeasures session to thespreadsheet [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-04-11].</p>
<p id=x261 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Legal Basis: <strong>Bud</strong>, Harsh, Ramisa, Mark</p>
<p id=x262 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Personal Data Categories: Axel, <strong>Fajar</strong>, Bert, Javier</p>
<p id=x263 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  .... type join #dpvcg_data</p>
<p id=x264 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://webprotege.stanford.edu/#projects/4658d8e1-588e-4847-90c1-6118eabac007/edit/Classes">https://<wbr>webprotege.stanford.edu/#projects/<wbr>4658d8e1-588e-4847-90c1-6118eabac007/<wbr>edit/<wbr>Classes</a>      username: dpvcg password: DMdYx2i9Yg6s</p>
<p id=x265 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> axelpolleres: for the personal data categories, you can take up the P3P 1.1 data schema, which is properly internationalised</p>
<p id=x266 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Would @rigo be able to answer a question we (legal basis) are stuck at in the IRC?</p>
<p id=x267 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> * rigo</p>
<p id=x268 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> sure thing, they also can skype me in</p>
<p id=x269 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> What's your skype ID? Mine is coolharsh55</p>
<p id=x270 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> (got it, thanks)</p>
<p id=i03 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> personal Data cateories collected might be collected in an approximate manner (e.g. age vs. age range), should we provide a mechanism in the vocabulary to distinguish this?</p>
<p id=x272 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-15 - Personal data cateories collected might be collected in an approximate manner (e.g. age vs. age range), should we provide a mechanism in the vocabulary to distinguish this?.  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/15/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>15/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x273 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Should personal data categories should be modelled using SKOS, using broader and narrower? dpv:Age skos:broader dpv:AgeRange</p>
<p id=x274 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Also works for specific Location vs generic Location</p>
<p id=x275 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Should we open an issue for the level of granularity we would add in the end? e.g. whether we want to go doen to a level of detail allowing to specify that FiveFactor model is used?</p>
<p id=x276 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> we will come bakc to the other room for the wrap-up session.</p>
<p id=x280 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Each session summarize: 1) summarize your status 2) Can you wrap up what you have with actioning 1-2 people to wrap it up for a first version or do you need another breakout or plenary?</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>1) PersonalData</h3>
<p id=x282 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> fajar: some more information on description to be added, properties for derivation and sensitivity added.</p>
<p id=x283 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh: rarther use superclasses than attributes for &quot;derived&quot; and for &quot;sensitive&quot;?</p>
<p id=x284 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> summary personal data:</p>
<p id=x285 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * Personal Categories:</p>
<p id=x286 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>     * descriptions not finished</p>
<p id=x287 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>     * derived/sensitive data categories: subclasses or attributes?</p>
<p id=x288 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>     * Inferred/Derived needs to be sorted</p>
<p id=x289 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> Notes: Derived data are properties that are automatically calculated and set on a document during a session save. An example of derived data is the size of some (e.g. binary) property of a node. Such derived data might have to be stored on the node itself.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>2) Legal Basis (Bud)</h3>
<p id=x291 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Consent, explicit consent, article 9 explicit consent are different ☺</p>
<p id=x292 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> does not need another breakout session for a first version, e.g. concrete mechanism to refer to contracts is not yet solved.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>3) Technical &amp; Organisational Measures</h3>
<p id=x294 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: I think I could wrap this up for a first version for review.</p>
<p id=x295 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> Note: we have the spreadsheet of terms and definitions for personal data</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fajar to create a first version of Personal data complete ontology.</p>
<p id=x297 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-84 - Create a first version of personal data complete ontology. [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-04-11].</p>
<p id=x298 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> shared in the mailing list</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to create first version of complete TechnicalOrgaMeasures</p>
<p id=x300 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-85 - Create first version of complete technicalorgameasures [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-04-11].</p>
<p id=x301 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> 2) first version is already there, HArsh will clean it up</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to clean first complete version of legal basis</p>
<p id=x303 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-86 - Clean first complete version of legal basis [on Harshvardhan Pandit - due 2019-04-11].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>4) Processing Categories</h3>
<p id=x305 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> still open, we will continue tomorrow, Simon, Bud, Elmar, Axel can try to wrap it up tomorrow.</p>
<p id=x306 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> discussion on automated or semi-automatic processing, scale, systematic monitoring, ⟶ high risk processing from GRPD.</p>
<p id=x307 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> .... deterministic or blackbox</p>
<p id=x308 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> (Javier reported)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>5) Purposes</h3>
<p id=x310 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Elmar: good starting point, main focus on scoping context  e.g. by sector (for he moment supporting NACE)</p>
<p id=x312 class=irc><cite>&lt;harsh&gt;</cite> GICS: <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Industry_Classification_Standard">https://<wbr>en.wikipedia.org/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Global_Industry_Classification_Standard</a></p>
<p id=x314 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Mark: GICS, hyperledger ISIC...</p>
<p id=x315 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ... we should use a global one.</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Mark to make a proposal alternatively use GICS instead of NACE.</p>
<p id=x317 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-87 - Make a proposal alternatively use gics instead of nace. [on Mark Lizar - due 2019-04-11].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>6) Consent</h3>
<p id=x319 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> about 50% ready. needs another session (Bud, Mark, Harsh)</p>
<p id=x320 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> <a href="https://opencorporates.com/companies/gb/07698434"><img src="https://opencorporates.com/companies/gb/07698434" alt="On Category of controller -- here is a record that list multiple industry codes"></a></p>
<p id=x321 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> and GICS is not one of them</p>
<p id=x322 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> (There are too many industry classification systems...)</p>
<p id=x323 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark&gt;</cite> 85.52: Cultural education (UK SIC Classification 2007) 85.52: Cultural education (European Community NACE Rev 2) 8542: Cultural education (UN ISIC Rev 4)</p>
<p id=x325 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * session: consent</p>
<p id=x326 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * session: processing categories</p>
<p id=x327 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> -----</p>
<p id=x328 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * process for new terms and feedback</p>
<p id=x329 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> * timeline</p>
<p id=x330 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>   finish drafts (who, by when?)</p>
<p id=x331 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>   review (who, by when?)</p>
<p id=x332 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>   publish</p>
<p id=x333 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>   advertise</p>
<p id=x334 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>   feedback cycle</p>
<p id=x335 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> start tomorrow 9:30</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">put internet scope/wider scope on the agenda tomorrow.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to put internet scope/wider scope on the agenda tomorrow.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Fajar to compile the owl file for the NACE r2 codes.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">HArsh, (with the help/review) of Axel, put results of the TechnicalOrganisationalMeasures session to thespreadsheet.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Harsh to (with the help/review) of Axel, put results of the TechnicalOrganisationalMeasures session to thespreadsheet</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Fajar to create a first version of Personal data complete ontology.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Axel to create first version of complete TechnicalOrgaMeasures</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">harsh to clean first complete version of legal basis</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Mark to make a proposal alternatively use GICS instead of NACE.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">We will use http://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>ns/<wbr>dpv as the main namespace, standing for data privacy vocabulary, if avialable, otherwise https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">use &quot;hasXYZ&quot; (and &quot;isXYZof&quot; in case we need inverses) as property names convention for ObjectProperties to avoid clashes with (Object-)Class names</a></li>
<li><a href="#r03">we use rdfs:subClassOf/subProrpertyOf for modeling hierarchies, instead of the weaker formalism of SKOS</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">decide later whether we need sub-namespaces for different subtaxonomies</a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">we may want to add a non-normative comment in the spec that/how the taxonomy can be used as SKOS.</a></li>
<li><a href="#i03">personal Data cateories collected might be collected in an approximate manner (e.g. age vs. age range), should we provide a mechanism in the vocabulary to distinguish this?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
