<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 22 MAY 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>22 MAY 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240522T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, iainHenderson, julianFlake, paulRyan, steveHickman, victorLopez</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>alexJarju, beatrizEsteves, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Updated Readme</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">profile metadata</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Risk extension</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">Incidents</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">GDPR Data Breach</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Risk Assessment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Risk Management</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">HumanInvolvement</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Consent Controls</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Tech extension</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t11">hasIntendedUse</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Cloud concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t13">DPV v2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-05-22">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-05-22</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Updated Readme</h3>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> the README.md for the github repo has been updated - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/blob/dev/README.md">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>blob/<wbr>dev/<wbr>README.md</a></p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>20:</cite> 10:04 &lt;ghurlbot&gt; <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/144">Issue 144 Update README.md for v2 (by coolharsh55)</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>profile metadata</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/141">Issue 141</a></strong> Add Profile vocabulary metadata (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> added profile metadata in RDF that describes that we have a HTML spec, RDF files, primer, guide, etc.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Risk extension</h3>
<h4 id=t04>Incidents</h4>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">Issue 100</a></strong> Proposal to add (security) Incident Reporting concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> added the incident concepts discussed in previous meeting to the risk extension, where data breach is a form of incident and is described using the incident concepts. </p>
<h4 id=t05>GDPR Data Breach</h4>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong> Provide concepts for Data Breach (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The data breach requirements from GDPR are provided in the EU GDPR extension.</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103">Issue 103</a></strong> Guide for Data Breach (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The guide for GDPR data breach has been copied over, and needs to be updated for incident concepts</p>
<h4 id=t06>Risk Assessment</h4>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104">Issue 104</a></strong> Re-evaluate Risk Assessment concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Added the risk assessment concepts as discussed previously - risk and mitigation measure is in DPV, risk extension provides concepts to model threat and vulnerability. Also includes generic risk controls.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> will you add more controls?</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, but only focusing on structure, broad concepts - otherwise link to MITRE CVE which is an established body of work</p>
<h4 id=t07>Risk Management</h4>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong> Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> involved in institution for privacy design which have an operational design for doing this e.g. risk controls</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> do we need to distinguish between risk management plan, methodology, etc.?</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> should also look into ISO AI Risk management guidelines</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> then let's look into this next month so we do general and AI risk together to ensure they are consistent</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> lots of interest in ai risk management</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> what we want to enable is supporting discovery and mitigation of risk using our concepts, so we can check whether our concepts support this or not</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> conclusion of discussions - we discuss risk management later together with AI risk management, rest are okay for v2 </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>HumanInvolvement</h3>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">Issue 108</a></strong> Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> (question from last meeting) shouldn't revert concepts be modelled as subsets of correct concepts</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> reversion is a more specific form of correction so this should be a hierarchy; alternatively, is it possible to revert without it being a correction - if, for example, both the current and prior values are correct and you just want to do a comparison?</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> correction if defined as changing the output can include reversion, however the intent is to distinguish when the human or another body supplies the value (correction) versus where it doesn't and relies on the previous value (reversion)</p>
<p id=x045 class=summary> discussion conclusion: agreed that for now we leave them separate and investigate whether they should be aligned; add a comment to this effect inviting inputs</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Consent Controls</h3>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115">Issue 115</a></strong> Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> Discussed and accepted as these are needed for practioners, no alternative proposal or clear objections provided at this moment</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Tech extension</h3>
<h4 id=t11>hasIntendedUse</h4>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/85">Issue 85</a></strong> Specify 'business process' or 'service goal' in DPV-Tech (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> e.g. database has many features but our intended use is only store and access control</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> can also help distinguish between what the provider declare as intended use and what is the intended use of the organisation</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s05"><cite>steve:</cite> would this help distinguish between what are all the capabilities of a system and what is the intended use of it </p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s05"><cite>steve:</cite> would this intended use be declared at the start or derived from all the uses?</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> both can be done e.g. declare initially then check if uses are aligned with intended use - deviation can be used to update the intended use or flag problems </p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> discussion conclusion - okay to use this</p>
<h4 id=t12>Cloud concepts</h4>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47">Issue 47</a></strong> ecifying "Cloud Computing" in DPV-TECH (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x061 class=summary> discussion conclusion - okay to continue with proposed restructuring</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>DPV v2</h3>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> this concludes all issues currently listed under DPV v2 milestone <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/4">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>4</a></p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> next step is to write the documentation for the changed concepts, and then review it - needs volunteers</p>
<p id=x065 class=summary> volunteers - paul, georg, julian (only after May end), delaram (only for AI and AI Act)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t14>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x067 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 29 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda will focus on DPV v2 planning and release.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
