<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 04 September 2018</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>04 September 2018</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Aug/0039.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Sep/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2018/09/04-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Axel, Bert, Harald, Javier, Ramisa, Rigo, Sabrina, simonstey, Stefano</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Alex</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>AxelPollleres, Javier, Rigo</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">schedule, milestones<br>
… use cases, we need more</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">minutes from last time</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">ACTIONS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">report back from Mydata, Helsinki</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">new use cases and templates</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Next steps and strategy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AOB</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x016 class=summary>Hi all!</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>hmm, seems there was some confusion about today's telco through my emails.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>schedule, milestones<br>
<span id=x030>… use cases, we need more</h3>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> we definitly have a good set of vocabularies</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> we can have more use cases, and we have to decide where we want to go with the requirements</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> in the F2F we said we want taxonomy for purposes, GDPR terms... etc. I think we need use cases for these things and use cases covering these terms. I think we should be OK and do not extend requirements now</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>Rigo:</cite> I would support it</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Harald: I would maybe have more requirements from thelegalt side</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s03"><cite>Harald:</cite> I can add more requirements from our internal discussions</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>Rigo:</cite> I would not do as an exercise, but take one by one use cases in the CG and expand it in a taxonomy</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Extending on use cases is OK, I advertised it in mydata</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Rigo: let's not do an &quot;explaining-the-world-exercises&quot;, but take 1-by-1 the use cases by the community group and cover them</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s04"><cite>Stefano:</cite> is there a collection of use cases that we can build upon?</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Axel: mydata has a collection, AFAIK</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> There is something from mydata meeting</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald_ULD&gt;</cite> Axel: More use cases encouraged. Axel proposed joining dpvcg at MyData, Helsinki last week.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Stefano to explore list of mydata use cases.</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-18 - Explore list of mydata use cases. [on Stefano Bocconi - due 2018-09-11].</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Axel will provide link to MyData use cases</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>minutes from last time</h3>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> no comments</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>ACTIONS</h3>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Bert will provide overview of SPECIAL use cases</p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-10 done</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> trackbot, close ACTION-10</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-10.</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> trackbot, close ACTION-13</p>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-13.</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> anybody active in ieee 7012? Axel willl try to reach out</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-15</p>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-15.</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-16</p>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-16.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>report back from Mydata, Helsinki</h3>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We need to discuss in order to define the scope of the WG. I talked of Interoperability, consent and transparency</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>axel:</cite> positive feedback, nobody is working in integrating the efforts in this area, only us</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald_ULD&gt;</cite> Axel: No one seems to have efforts on integrateing the approaches except us  (DPVCG-group).</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s01"><cite>axel:</cite> they talked a lot of standards but for identity, authentication,... , we can keep an eye and have liasons</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> some other topics:  distributed identities, authentication standardisation, credential community group (standards for credential exchange)<br>
<span id=x073>… They mostly focus on the protocol but not in our scope, e.g. data categories, we have a quite unique scope</span></p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> 5) Social Activity ⟶ Activity Streams</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> 4) Consent &amp; Transparency ⟶ DPVCG</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> 3) Credentials     ⟶  Credentials CG</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> 2) Identity⟶ DID, national eIDs, â€¦</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> 1) Authentication? ⟶ Oauth, DIDAuth, Webauthn</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> In this categories, privacy and consent would be one level below</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://aic.ai.wu.ac.at/~polleres/presentations/20180830MyData2018_Interop_and_Transparency.pdf">https://<wbr>aic.ai.wu.ac.at/~polleres/<wbr>presentations/<wbr>20180830MyData2018_Interop_and_Transparency.pdf</a></p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> slides are available in the link above, feedback is welcomed!</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s04"><cite>Stefano:</cite> It</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s04"><cite>Stefano:</cite> It's surprising nobody is doing this effort</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> For web browsers there is another w3c workshop in California, september, but they are not aware of our efforts</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2018/cfp.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>Privacy/<wbr>permissions-ws-2018/<wbr>cfp.html</a></p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald_ULD&gt;</cite> Rigo: there is another workgroup re-establishing the android-permissions in the context of an US-understanding privacy.</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s02"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Not surprising, the browsers are like a modern TV :)</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Use-Cases,_Requirements,_Vocabularies</a></p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;Harald_ULD&gt;</cite> Axel: a</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> Harald_ULD: I oppose the US understanding of privacy/secrecy to the EU understanding of data protection. The latter is more about dossiers than about secrecy</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> added more vocabularies, e.g. CDMM, ActivityStreams...</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> AxelPollleres: may look into schema.org vocabs</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite> ... consent received work by Kantara</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;rigo&gt;</cite>  ... data categories from schema.org to be explored</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s05"><cite>Bert:</cite> So mydata.org is creating a foundation...</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> yes, it is organized by country, but they are thinking of building a more formal structure.<br>
<span id=x100>… the origin in Finland and they are thinking of how to organize and make it attractive</span></p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s06"><cite>Javier:</cite> Is someone from mydata joining the group?</p>
<p id=x103 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Probably 1 or 2, not sure if they will join the telcos, trying to have people from Kantara makes a lot of sense<br>
<span id=x104>… I particularly talked to people with use cases and invited them to post the use case and join the calls</span></p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/OwnYourData/Data_Donation">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>OwnYourData/<wbr>Data_Donation</a></p>
<p id=x106 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> For example, <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/OwnYourData/Data_Donation,">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>OwnYourData/<wbr>Data_Donation,</a> by the founder of ownyourdata</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>new use cases and templates</h3>
<p id=x109 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Already mentioned the new use cases, Ownyourdata, also digi.me, but it needs more details</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to contact digi.me again for a more detailed use case description</p>
<p id=x111 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-19 - Contact digi.me again for a more detailed use case description [on Axel Polleres - due 2018-09-11].</p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> is there anybody else planning to add more use cases?</p>
<p id=x117 class="phone s03"><cite>Harald:</cite> do we need to link use cases and requirements?<br>
<span id=x118>… we can maybe add something regarding data processing by public entities</span><br>
<span id=x119>… more regarding to transmission, public archives, police... etc. Are there legal reasons to transmit personal data?</span></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harald proposes use case about public entities handling personal data</p>
<p id=x121 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-20 - Proposes use case about public entities handling personal data [on Harald Zwingelberg - due 2018-09-11].</p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We have the list of requirements we should cover. How should we proceed? Should we vote, are we missing something...?</p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> thoughts on additional requirements? use cases?</p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s04"><cite>Stefano:</cite> We are still collecting use cases and this can cover more requirements</p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Should we then wait for more use cases?</p>
<p id=x126 class="phone s04"><cite>Stefano:</cite> We need enough coverage to have relevance</p>
<p id=x127 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> If use cases are general enough then it is not tragic</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I tried to convince people to add use cases even if they do not join the calls, in order to have enough coverage</p>
<p id=x129 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We might then try to have more use cases and try to expand if needed</p>
<p id=x130 class="phone s07"><cite>Sabrina:</cite> if you want to make progress, maybe organize another workshop with industry, maybe co-located with Big Data Value Vienna</p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> We might have some locals, but we are a bit tight on time</p>
<p id=x132 class="phone s07"><cite>Sabrina:</cite> One could find the people already registered/attending</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Sabrina: run a workshop on industry use cases around BDVA-Forum</p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I can try to find out, but it is rather soon</p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s07"><cite>Sabrina:</cite> Maybe we can ask Big Data PPP for support<br>
<span id=x137>… they already contacted Eva</span></p>
<p id=x138 class=irc><cite>&lt;Sabrina&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.european-big-data-value-forum.eu/">https://<wbr>www.european-big-data-value-forum.eu/</a></p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> <a href="http://www.bdva.eu/">http://<wbr>www.bdva.eu/</a></p>
<p id=x141 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> if we agree when we can organize the meeting, then we can see if we can reach the companies<br>
<span id=x142>… From me it could be hard, except for the 13th but companies will be in the meeting</span></p>
<p id=x143 class="phone s07"><cite>Sabrina:</cite> Maybe try via the PPP</p>
<p id=x144 class="phone s02"><cite>Rigo:</cite> Yes, this can go via Eva, she is well connected there</p>
<p id=x145 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Use cases for Privacy session at BDVA</p>
<p id=x146 class="phone s02"><cite>Rigo:</cite> was in Versaille last meeting, and it was a bit caotic, last minute</p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> can we put an action to Eva?</p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s03"><cite>Harald:</cite> For the vienna conference in november, Eva will be there potentially</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harald to talk to Eva to get in touch with BDVA about a session slot in the European Bid Data Value Forum.</p>
<p id=x150 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-21 - Talk to eva to get in touch with bdva about a session slot in the european bid data value forum. [on Harald Zwingelberg - due 2018-09-11].</p>
<p id=x152 class="phone s03"><cite>Harald:</cite> there could be a pannel session<br>
<span id=x153>… I will ask Eva to ask and report to the group</span></p>
<p id=x154 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Of course we can present what we have now, but in general we need a slot to get to know how companies are doing with GDPR</p>
<p id=x155 class="phone s07"><cite>Sabrina:</cite> already registered but in the first two days</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> I can try to join the first days</p>
<p id=x157 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> Sabrina, Harald, Eva, planning to go to BDVA, maybe Axel, Javier, ...</p>
<p id=x158 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> not me</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Stefano to ask around whether DECODE is willing to participate in BDVA-Forum</p>
<p id=x160 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-22 - Ask around whether decode is willing to participate in bdva-forum [on Stefano Bocconi - due 2018-09-11].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Next steps and strategy</h3>
<p id=x162 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Bert and I have to talk and maybe discuss with the group in the next telco</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Bert and Axel tallk about refining the schedule/scope of the group and come back with a proposal how to order the input collected so far</p>
<p id=x164 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-23 - And axel tallk about refining the schedule/scope of the group and come back with a proposal how to order the input collected so far [on Bert Bos - due 2018-09-11].</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AOB</h3>
<p id=x167 class="phone s03"><cite>Harald:</cite> I presented DPVCG at ARES 2018 in Hamburg last Monday inviting potential participants from other EU-projects to join.</p>
<p id=x168 class=irc><cite>&lt;Ramisa&gt;</cite> thank you</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s01"><cite>Axel:</cite> Next telco in two weeks</p>
<p id=x183 class=irc><cite>&lt;AxelPollleres&gt;</cite> thanks! talk soon!</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Stefano to explore list of mydata use cases.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Axel to contact digi.me again for a more detailed use case description</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">harald proposes use case about public entities handling personal data</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Harald to talk to Eva to get in touch with BDVA about a session slot in the European Bid Data Value Forum.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Stefano to ask around whether DECODE is willing to participate in BDVA-Forum</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Bert and Axel tallk about refining the schedule/scope of the group and come back with a proposal how to order the input collected so far</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
