<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 04 JAN 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>04 JAN 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jan/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/01/04-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaram, georg, harsh, jan, paul, tek</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Data Breach</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Risk Management</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV-LEGAL</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">DPV-TECH</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Adding More Regulations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Data Breach</h3>
<p id=x009 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> Meeting with VC Hungarian DPA who said data breach requirements vary across EU DPAs. Problem for Orgs is that they are required to report to multiple/all DPAs which means there are separate requirements for each reporting. The work required here is to first list what GDPR requires, then see what each DPA requires additionally, and then after this we have the building blocks to create a Data Breach vocabulary.</p>
<p id=x010 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Paul followed this approach for ROPA, and myself for DPIA so this seems like a repeated pattern we would have to do with all processes.</p>
<p id=x011 class="phone s03"><cite>jan:</cite> When consenting, it is clear who is the authority (DPA). One idea would be to identify the location or region of the individual and identify the relevant local authorities to present in notice or to be notified.</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> In this case, the reporting is supposed to go to all DPAs. So this is not from the individual, but from the Org directly to DPAs.</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> I've been mulling on whethere there is a possibility to use ActivityPub to normalise the communications protocols, and build stuff like ROPA and Data Breach upon it. Would be an interesting research application.</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> We can submit something to EDPB on the harmonisation of information requirements.</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s03"><cite>jan:</cite> Similar chance for privacy notices information to be 'standardised' or provided in common form?</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> No, that is difficult because the DPAs and GDPR consider a notice to be contextual and per use-case. So a single notice format is difficult to achieve. There has been some movement to adopt 29184 in CEN/CENELEC as an EU standard - so we may have an authoritative source on information within a GDPR notice as well.<br>
<span id=x018>… Relevant GitHub issue - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">w3c/<wbr>dpv#64</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Risk Management</h3>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Proposal to add more risk management concepts under the Risk extension as per ISO 31000 series<br>
<span id=x022>… Relevant GitHub issue - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">w3c/<wbr>dpv#74</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV-LEGAL</h3>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> As we noted in the earlier meeting, we want to focus on laws and authorities and provide guidance on use of external location vocabularies.<br>
<span id=x026>… Relevant GitHub issue - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/46">w3c/<wbr>dpv#46</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Justifications</h3>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> We have agreed to create a Justifications extension to provide all kinds of reasons for why something happened or could not happen<br>
<span id=x030>… Relevant GitHub issue - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/83">w3c/<wbr>dpv#83</a></span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>DPV-TECH</h3>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> Need to specify the 'tech' used e.g. form's security method, or how the email was sent</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>paul:</cite> when using a supplier it requires due diligence, etc.</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Lets collect use-cases for DPV-Tech so we have a focus</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s05"><cite>tek:</cite> SDM for ToMS - <a href="https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/uploads/sdm/SDM-Methodology_V2.0b.pdf">https://<wbr>www.datenschutzzentrum.de/<wbr>uploads/<wbr>sdm/<wbr>SDM-Methodology_V2.0b.pdf</a> - will look through this document and provide more information</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Adding More Regulations</h3>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> we also need to plan around upcoming regulations this year i.e. DGA, DSA, DMA, and the proposed ones i.e. Data Act, AI Act, ePrivacy Regulation, Health Data Space Regulation</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> which of these would be consider first?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> preference is on currently enforced (i.e. GDPR), then accepted (i.e. DGA, DSA, DMA), then proposed (i.e. rest) - we also want to avail of guidelines, case law, known use-cases and implementations etc.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s03"><cite>jan:</cite> working on eIDAS - which would also be relevant to the group; am writing an article on this</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>jan:</cite> (discussion on standards) what needs to be standardised, what is missing or what are the gaps in ISO/CEN and if the group can be useful there</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x043 class="phone s03"><cite>jan:</cite> We will meet again in 1 week, on WED 11th Jan at 14:00 CET.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
