<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 MAR 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 MAR 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240306T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>art, beatriz, delaram, harsh, steveHickman, ted</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georg, tytti</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">New Member</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">ODRL Alignment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">AI Act</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">Risk Assessment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Related Concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">concepts for DPV</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">GDPR Rights Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">User-facing DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">TOM concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Resource Paper</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-03-06">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-03-06</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>AOB</h3>
<p id=x011 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> discussion on tech/org measures</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> ODRL CG alignment</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>New Member</h3>
<p id=x014 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> worked on privacy at Facebook, now working on tooling for privacy by design - came across DPV recently</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> (FYI) models for privacy interest group recently started, Ann Cavoukian is part of that, may see an influx of people</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>ODRL Alignment</h3>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">Issue 130</a></strong>  Alignment with ODRL (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> ODRL CG met last week, interest to publish a joint report</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> first steps are a mapping of concepts between DPV and ODRL Information Model i.e. align it as purpose and left operand, data would be an asset and so on. And then other work can be built on top of that.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we have some existing work e.g. that by beatriz and me on this - to add to the issue</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for ODRL, let me or beatriz know so we can keep you in the loop</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> assuming these would be useful to the tooling, yes this is relevant</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> also express interest via the Github issue</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>AI Act</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">Issue 126</a></strong>  AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<h4 id=t05>Risk Assessment</h4>
<p id=x028 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> risk assessment concepts in the act, documentation relevant to this is needed. For example, high-risk categorisation requires assessment for when it is not high-risk to show the risk assessment output</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> for the AI concepts (extension to Tech) we can use <a href="https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/28702dc2-2f21-11ed-975d-01aa75ed71a1/language-ent">https://<wbr>op.europa.eu/<wbr>en/<wbr>publication-detail/-/<wbr>publication/<wbr>28702dc2-2f21-11ed-975d-01aa75ed71a1/<wbr>language-ent</a> JRC output in addition to ISO standards</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s05"><cite>art:</cite> definition of risk in the act - difference in risk levels which say low likelihood results in medium risk but with the AI Act definition it can be unacceptable risk</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> risk matrix has to be built on context - one for AI Act will have severity adjusted to the Act's requirements</p>
<h4 id=t06>Related Concepts</h4>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> related concepts field - should we add them?</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> related concepts came from link to external concepts, and then for the DPV concepts we put the concept in the comment </p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> so we can add in related concepts such as those for BiometricAISystem where Biometric as a capability is related</p>
<h4 id=t07>concepts for DPV</h4>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> lets go through the DPV intended concepts</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> not ready</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> definition of purpose - to be updated to include AI </p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we updated the definition based on discussions in December so that it says &quot;use of technology&quot; - is this sufficient? I think we should add &quot;technology (including AI)&quot;</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> definition should say 'resource' - so it can be used for other things similar to DCAT</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we limit the description to concepts within our scope e.g. only for data processing e.g. Purpose in ODRL <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/odrl-vocab/#term-purpose">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>odrl-vocab/#term-purpose</a> is limited to ODRL context</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>GDPR Rights Justifications</h3>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63">Issue 63</a></strong> Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> update to rights justifications - modelled Art.34. Added a prefix and abbreviations to the concepts to avoid long term names. Prefix &quot;J&quot; for justification and then abbreviate &quot;Not Req&quot; for not required and so on.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> how do we model this? E.g. justifications in an extension, and then extend them in rights and then again in GDPR for specific clauses</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> possibly, depends on how much repetition there ends up being</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>User-facing DPV</h3>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/91">Issue 91</a></strong>  Provide guidance for implementing ISO/IEC 29184 Privacy Notice using DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s06"><cite>iain:</cite> vocabulary for the person, how/where do we start that?</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we can start with the ISO 29184 fields as what information is to be provided to the individual for privacy notices and then see what labels to use for that. We can use a spreadsheet to list labels for existing concepts in DPV so that the term/IRI does not change but there is a user-intended label that can be used.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>TOM concepts</h3>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <code>dpv:ROPA</code> is required by a DPV-using project Rob is running. We currently have it proposed. The concept already existed (was accepted) as 'Records of Processing Activities' and the proposal was to use 'ROPA' as the more common industry term for this. No in-depth discussion needed but FYI as Georg or Paul are not present here.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Resource Paper</h3>
<p id=x055 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> any updates on this?</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> have started with a skeleton document and yet to add contents to it; will share back for feedback once there is substantial material</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x058 class=summary> Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED MAR-13 15:00 WET / 16:00 CET.</p>
<p id=x059 class=summary> Topics for discussion are</p>
<p id=x060 class=summary> 1) Rights Justification by beatriz - we are waiting for review by Georg, Paul.</p>
<p id=x061 class=summary> 2) AI Act concepts by delaram - to complete and review Art.3 definitions and DPV intended concepts with Harsh.</p>
<p id=x062 class=summary> 3) TOMs by harsh - to resolve the proposed concepts.</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary> 4) user-facing DPV/29184 by iain - to report back on the start of the work.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
