<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference &ndash; 22 January 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>Data Privacy Vocabularies and Controls Community Group Teleconference</h1>
<h2>22 January 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/01/08-dpvcg-minutes.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/mid/36891304.CWuKmcZnDW@nyx"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/01/22-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert, simonstey</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x005 class=summary>Eva we can hear you on the call.</p>
<p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;Eva_and_Bud&gt;</cite> ok you can still hear us but we cannot hear you, working on it, sigh</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> any concerns about previous minutes of meeting? (no replies)</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> Axel proposed (via email) to move the next meeting by -/+ 1 hour. We'll talk about that at the end of the meeting.</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">actions</a></p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> looking for any actions we can close</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-13?</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/13">action-13</a></strong> Stefano Bocconi to Propose use case(s) for the decode project -- due 2018-08-14 -- CLOSED</p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-33?</p>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/33">action-33</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Summarize elements of consent from the mails and align with mark lizar on "concent receipt" definition (e.g. on delegation) -- due 2018-11-13 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-42?</p>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/42">action-42</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Look into requirements of data protection assessment, and whether it would make sense to formalize that in terms of what we standardize -- due 2018-12-10 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> regarding consent, we (me and Mark) are talking about a minimum version of consent receipt which can incorporate DPVCG vocabularies</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I'm looking(-ed) at the opinion of Article 29 WP, for cases such as impact assessment which can assist us in understanding which data can be considered sensitive</p>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;Mark_Lizar&gt;</cite> Hello</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> it is difficult to assess whether data is sensitive because they are context sensitive and this makes it difficult to capture it in a vocabulary</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I would consider this action point as done since the information cannot be categorised based on the opinion</p>
<p id=x038 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-42</p>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-42.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> would it be helpful to list the criteria / concepts about the assessment and have them as the ontology?</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I can share the points of assessment (from my research) with the mailing list and we can discuss if it is useful to use them</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> is this the difference between high risk and risk?</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Eva to send mail to list with the criteria for data protection assessment from EDPB</p>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-59 - Send mail to list with the criteria for data protection assessment from edpb [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2019-01-29].</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> In the opinion (A29 WP) they have described if such a high risk exists or can exist and controllers are expected to carry out the assessment to see if this is possible</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> In Canada, there was a call for comments, and resulted in update to privacy laws, where risk must be provided for meaningul consent. So this is a similar activity on risk.</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> Let's discuss these criteria on the mailing list (after I share them), as they are highly context dependant which are evolving constantly.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> (regarding consent) Kantara is working with/for a working group for ISO 29184 for consent/privacy notices, and this work is going in an annex in that report. The idea is to create a minimal viable consent report which can be extended by different organisations.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> so there can be an extension submitted by this work group and reviewed in that context.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-48?</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/48">action-48</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Look into classifications of organisations that could serve as a basis for clsssifying data controllers -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> shared email for categories of organisations <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2018Dec/0021.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018Dec/<wbr>0021.html</a></p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> There are SIC codes (different ones for North America, EU, UN (UK?). So we can use that as a company classification. And a company can have a service which can be different from the company classification. In GDPR, it refers to categories from SIC codes.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> what might be relevant is that there could be different purposes or could mix into each other (for big corps)</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> the primary purpose or the core purpose has been brought up a few times - too much flexibility can increase confusion</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> should we summarise this as using SIC (or compatible) codes to define categories of organisations?</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> GDPR specifically mentions terms/categories defined by trade bodies</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> it is useful to revisit the question of &quot;why&quot; we need categories of controllers</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> GDPR code of conduct mentions categories</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> so it may be that there are far lesser categories than SIC codes specify</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> we can close this action and have another look at where this categories are useful?</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-48</p>
<p id=x064 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-48.</p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> where are categories of data controllers used, where are they useful? (cf. recital 98, 99, 100)</p>
<p id=x066 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ISSUE-9 - Where are categories of data controllers used, where are they useful? (cf. recital 98, 99, 100).  Please complete additional details at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/issues/9/edit">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>issues/<wbr>9/<wbr>edit</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> R98, R99, R100 are relevant for categories of controllers</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-57?</p>
<p id=x069 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/57">action-57</a></strong> Harshvardhan Pandit to Start definitionsions of the high-level purposes at https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/purposes_for_handling_personal_data#high-level_categories_.28to-be-discussed.29 and map them to purposes collected from use cases -- due 2018-12-18 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> page in wiki: <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Purposes_for_handling_Personal_Data</a></p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> I have added brief descriptions to the wiki page (link above)</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-58?</p>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/58">action-58</a></strong> Eva Schlehahn to Look at iab europe consent framework -- due 2019-01-15 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> there are only 5 purposes which are generic, and there's no information on how they envision changes to the policy or consent (withdraw, updates, changes), or if data subject wants to have something rectified</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I don't understand vendor as a concept, and some of the terms are generic . I'm sceptical of its use to the community.</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> sorry we can also discuss action-55</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> what would be useful is where the vendors are located, how they share data - these are all missing.</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> vendors in this sense refers to anyone who wants to sell ads and thereby collect consent</p>
<p id=x082 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-58</p>
<p id=x083 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-58.</p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> action-55?</p>
<p id=x085 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/55">action-55</a></strong> Javier D. Fernández to Look into how to align special duration vocab with “deletion-ideas” from eva’s slide (e.g. include no-retention, deleted-by, etc.) in our vocabulary -- due 2018-12-11 -- OPEN</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> - no-retention: no storage beyond using once</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> close action-55</p>
<p id=x089 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed action-55.</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> - stated purpose: until purpose has been fulfilled</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> - legal-requirement: storage period defined by a law requiring it</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> - business practices: requires a deletion concept of controller</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> - Indefinitely: e.g. for really anonymized data, public archives...</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;Javier&gt;</cite> - delete-by_ or delete-x-date_month_after &lt;event&gt;</p>
<p id=x095 class="phone s05"><cite>javier:</cite> for action-55, I spoke with Eva for our SPECIAL use-cases and these are the options for retention.</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s05"><cite>Javier:</cite> (to Eva) do you have any specific events for the last point?</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> this was for example for controllers that have legal obligations to keep the data after a certain time e.g. billing dat</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s05"><cite>Javier:</cite> if it is a time then its fine, but if it's event-based then can we know what these events are?</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> these are context-dependant, e.g. purpose fulfilling in a contract</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> I can look at the use-cases to see if it matches with the deletion rules ideas</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s04"><cite>Mark:</cite> (to Eva) are these the exceptions to the specified purpose (as in retention for one purpose but deletion for some other purpose)</p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s03"><cite>Eva:</cite> there can be differentiation between usage data and billing data, then these datasets can be handled according to different storing periods</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> eva to look at use cases in the wiki to see if one matches the deletion rules ideas Eva posted (especially deletion depending on an event or purpose rather than a fixed period)</p>
<p id=x104 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-60 - Look at use cases in the wiki to see if one matches the deletion rules ideas eva posted (especially deletion depending on an event or purpose rather than a fixed period) [on Eva Schlehahn - due 2019-01-29].</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> in this case, the law overrides the GDPR rather than the GDPR having an exception?</p>
<p id=x106 class="phone s05"><cite>Javier:</cite> we have a term legal / law (?) that can be a URI to a law</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s01"><cite>Bert:</cite> about the next call, there was an request from Axel if we can have the call +/-1 hour<br>
<span id=x111>… proposed: next telco on 12th (rather than 5th) February and holding it at 2 rather than 4</span><br>
<span id=x112>… no objections</span><br>
<span id=x113>… Next call confirmed on 12th Feb 14:00</span></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bert to schedule webex for 12 Feb 14:00</p>
<p id=x115 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> 'bert' is an ambiguous username. Please try a different identifier, such as family name or username (e.g., bbos, bertv).</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bbos to schedule webex for 12 Feb 14:00</p>
<p id=x117 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-61 - Schedule webex for 12 feb 14:00 [on Bert Bos - due 2019-01-29].</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Eva to send mail to list with the criteria for data protection assessment from EDPB</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">eva to look at use cases in the wiki to see if one matches the deletion rules ideas Eva posted (especially deletion depending on an event or purpose rather than a fixed period)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">bert to schedule webex for 12 Feb 14:00</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">bbos to schedule webex for 12 Feb 14:00</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">where are categories of data controllers used, where are they useful? (cf. recital 98, 99, 100)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
