<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 23 NOV 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>23 NOV 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Nov/0004.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/11/23-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, georg, harsh, julian, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPV v1 prep</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Adding PII as a concept</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Sensitivity of Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Pending tasks</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x008 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/11/16-dpvcg-minutes.html">Previous minutes</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPV v1 prep</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>We discussed pending issues on GitHub and resolved all open issues for v1.</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>The collection of issues is at - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/50">w3c/<wbr>dpv#50</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Specify conditions, constraints, or restrictions e.g. for purpose or data category #18 - resolved as we have Rules now.</p>
<p id=x013 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/18">w3c/<wbr>dpv#18</a> : Specify conditions, constraints, or restrictions e.g. for purpose or data category</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> Add/Expand Purpose Categories #22 - resolved as we have refined the purposes recently and identify no major issues.</p>
<p id=x015 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/22">w3c/<wbr>dpv#22</a> : Add/Expand Purpose Categories</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> Adding Safeguards to DPV #23 - resolved as we went through the list and have confirmed the safeguards are present in DPV.</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/23">w3c/<wbr>dpv#23</a> : Adding Safeguards to DPV</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> DPV releases should contain only the vocabulary #40 - resolved as code has been implemented.</p>
<p id=x019 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/40">w3c/<wbr>dpv#40</a> : DPV releases should contain only the vocabulary</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> List of concepts, documentation, and other things to be provided in DPV v1.0.0 #38 - resolved as we have agreed on v1 concepts and future work.</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/38">w3c/<wbr>dpv#38</a> : List of concepts, documentation, and other things to be provided in DPV v1.0.0</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Adding PII as a concept</h3>
<p id=x023 class=summary>We discussed whether to add PII as a concept as it is used in several use-cases and jurisdictions.</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary>The issue is the exact definition of PII and its relation with PersonalData. There are several different iterations, and while providing PII may be of value, if it is the exact same as PersonalData, then there is no need to provide a concept separately.</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>Instead, if PII is a subtype of PersonalData, then this should be made explicitly clear through the definition.</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary>We have decided for now to keep the issue open and discuss it later.</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary>Indicating PII i.e. Personally Identifiable data category or categories in combination #14</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/14">w3c/<wbr>dpv#14</a> : Indicating PII i.e. Personally Identifiable data category or categories in combination</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary>(relevant issue)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Sensitivity of Data</h3>
<p id=x031 class=summary>Express 'sensitivity' of data #11 - relevant issue</p>
<p id=x032 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/11">w3c/<wbr>dpv#11</a> : Express 'sensitivity' of data</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary>We discussed whether we should provide sensitivity of data as a concept/relation to indicate how sensitive the data is (on a scale).</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary>Harsh's proposal is to reuse Severity instead of creating a separate scale, since the use of severity is tied to risk/impact which uses levels and severities.</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary>Paul disagrees that such use is compantible, and that severity reflects association with impact, whereas severity is a concept applicable before use.</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary>We have decided to keep the issue open for this discussion to continue later.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Pending tasks</h3>
<p id=x038 class=summary>Documentation Style Guide #39 - harsh will create a wiki page with some collected requirements</p>
<p id=x039 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/39">w3c/<wbr>dpv#39</a> : Documentation Style Guide</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary>Diagrams #24 #65 - Georg and Delaram are working on this</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/24">w3c/<wbr>dpv#24</a> : Diagrams in documentation for better view of concepts</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/65">w3c/<wbr>dpv#65</a> : Add/Update diagrams in DPV for v1</p>
<p id=x043 class=summary>Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used #12 - harsh and beatriz are editing these</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12">w3c/<wbr>dpv#12</a> : Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used</p>
<p id=x045 class=summary>georg has suggested to not use new concepts (~ex:Concept~) in the examples as it causes confusion as to where those concepts are in DPV. Or, to provide textual description that these concepts have been created to show how DPV's concepts can be extended.</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary>Machine-readable requests to execute rights #4 Rights Exercise - will be integrated in v1, needs textual description</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;Github&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/4">w3c/<wbr>dpv#4</a> : Machine-readable requests to execute rights</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x049 class=summary>We will meet again in 1 week, on WED NOV-30 13:00 WET / 14:00 CET</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary>Other than textual descriptions to be added to the specification, and the diagrams, no other issues have urgency.</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary>The guides, use-cases, examples, and refinements will continue to happen post v1 release.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
