<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 02 FEB 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>02 FEB 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Jan/0022.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/02/02-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>:, beatriz, georg, harsh, jan, julian, paul</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPV Primer</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Technology</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Entities and their Categorisation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x007 class=summary>Previous minutes ⇒ <a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/01/26-dpvcg-minutes.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2022/<wbr>01/<wbr>26-dpvcg-minutes.html</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPV Primer</h3>
<p id=x011 class=summary>We have comments from Georg and Piero.</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>No other comments or observations in the room.</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>Comments related to description of topics and typos have been resolved.</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>---</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary>Regarding expression of DPV using SKOS or OWL, there has been a discussion the mailing list.</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>Currently, the choice is to provide both within the Primer. We await Piero &amp; Luigi's text/material for this.</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Primer will be updated along with other documentation after this.</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary>---</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>For other examples (and expression of use-cases), Harsh can provide SKOS examples.</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>For OWL examples, we need a volunteer. If willing, email Harsh.</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary>---</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> In Signatu, we use DPV. The CTO says that adoption rate will depend on approaches, and will be different for different ones.</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> Our clients prefer natural language expressions, which we turn into a JSON structure. Nothing more.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Technology</h3>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>georg:</cite> In the previous meeting, we discussed <code>Technology</code> as a concept, and agreed on its necessity and inclusion.<br>
<span id=x027>… Proposals related to specific forms of technology, e.g. database or algorithm, are being proposed.</span></p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>jan:</cite> In these, does <code>algorithm</code> refer to, e.g. anonymisation algorithm? If so, how to express this?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> We have anonymisation and pseudo-anonymisation as measures. It would be preferable to express concepts related to those under that e.g. specific types of anonymisation techniques.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> That being said, there is no restriction to also declare those as types of algorithms if doing so is necessary or needed, e.g. in an implementation.<br>
<span id=x034>… ---</span><br>
<span id=x035>… Conclusion of discussion → For now, we include <code>Technology</code> as a concept, and for the rest, we look towards sources from ENISA <em> ISO </em> NIST / etc. for categories and concepts.</span><br>
<span id=x036>… We have the option to provide these as a separate extension if the concepts we collect and provide are <u>opinionated</u> rather than formal/universal.</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Entities and their Categorisation</h3>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>harsh:</cite> Currently in DPV, we have the <code>DataController</code> and similar concepts sitting alongside proposed concepts of <code>NonProfitOrganisation</code> and <code>NonGovernmentalOrganisation</code>.<br>
<span id=x040>… Proposal is to have concept <code>LegalRole</code> to provide a separation between concepts such as controller and processors from organisation types.</span></p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>jan:</cite> <code>IndustryConsortium</code> as a broad categorisation of <code>Organisation</code> is okay as specific types of consortium could be extended if needed.<br>
<span id=x043>… The source of concepts is the ADMS vocabulary, with additional concepts added to balance expression e.g. Profit and NonProfit.</span></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>julian:</cite> In GDPR Art.91, there is &quot;church and religious associations or communities&quot; mentioned as an organisation. These should also be provided for completion.<br>
<span id=x052>… Discussion on what term to use for this did not conclude with any agreement. For now, we consider <code>ReligiousAssociation</code> as a proposed term awaiting further discussion.</span><br>
<span id=x053>… --</span><br>
<span id=x054>… ---</span><br>
<span id=x055>… The following concepts are accepted in today's meeting: <code>LegalRole</code>, <code>JointDataControllers</code>, <code>Organisation</code>, <code>IndustryConsortium</code>, <code>GovernmentalOrganisation</code>, <code>NonGovernmentalOrganisation</code>, <code>ForProfitOrganisation</code>, <code>NonProfitOrganisation</code>, <code>AcademicScientificOrganisation</code>, <code>NationalAuthority</code>, <code>RegionalAuthority</code>, <code>SupraNationalAuthority</code></span><br>
<span id=x056>… Property <code>hasEntity</code> as parent property of entity-related properties.</span><br>
<span id=x057>… Term <code>ThirdCountry</code> to represent countries outside applicable jurisdiction (within whatever context it is used in).</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x060 class="phone s04"><cite>julian:</cite> We will meet again in +1 week on 09-FEB at 13:00 WET / 14:00 CET<br>
<span id=x061>… Discussion will continue on resolving concepts proposed in spreadsheet, and other items on Agenda.</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
