<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 22 JUN 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>22 JUN 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/2de88053-05a8-49d5-9d10-33fb453e5a4c"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/06/01-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, georg, harsh, julian, paul, TedThibodeauJr, tobiasEichinger</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Data Breach extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Multilingual Translations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Data Governance Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">has assessment relation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Data Breach extension</h3>
<p id=x010 class=summary>harsh shared the current draft, see email <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jun/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jun/<wbr>0003.html</a> with the content at <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/data-breach/">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>data-breach/</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>This is to be reviewed by the group before inclusion in the formal repository. The review will be undertaken by georg, paul, julian, and will be an item on next week's agenda.</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong> Provide concepts for Data Breach (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>TedThibodeauJr:</cite> as best practice, it is better to add the draft to the group's repository and continue the work there</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> agreed, the process is that this is the first draft as a proposal - once the group agrees it is in scope and there are no issues, it is then added to the github repo and then is developed there</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Multilingual Translations</h3>
<p id=x017 class="phone s03"><cite>tobiasEichinger:</cite> for the TRAPEZE project which uses the DPV for consent management, we are generating automated translation using DeepL for the DPV concepts. Currently, it has some errors that need human intervention to fix and refine.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> What is the scope for translations? Will you translate everything? All concepts and documentation?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>tobiasEichinger:</cite> ideal would be everything, but for now it is concepts and descriptions</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> we can use GDPR multilingual lexicon api.digitalgrammars.com/gdpr for the translation glossary<br>
<span id=x022>â€¦ tobias and georg will work on the glossary and then they will refine them with translations and review them for quality; if they work then produce the RDF / SKOS translations to use with the TRAPEZE tool</span></p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">#89</a></p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">Issue 89</a></strong> Multi-lingual labels and descriptions for concepts (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> The current way of translating works for concepts but not for descriptions (which are sentences)</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>tobiasEichinger:</cite> DeepL will also work with the descriptions with the help of glossary to help with correctness</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> As per email conversations earlier, the proposal by tobias is to have a glossary of manually curated terms so that DeepL can refer to those to generate the correct translations. </p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>tobiasEichinger:</cite> (demo of TRAPEZE dashboard) the concepts and descriptions from DPV are displayed as part of the dashboard, so the user can choose the language and the translations will be used here</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Data Governance Act</h3>
<p id=x030 class="phone s05"><cite>beatriz:</cite> (presenting) concept analysis of DGA with a focus on the various entities involved</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> where is data requestor?</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> discussion on data requestor as a concept - it is not mentioned or defined in the DGA. Conclusion that we do not define non-normative terms at the moment, and wait for guidance or common usage before adding it to the vocabulary</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s05"><cite>beatriz:</cite> changes to DPV top concepts and properties required to model data instead of personal data</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> question to the group - whether we discuss this now (as in the coming weeks) or do we take this up later?</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>georg:</cite> can we do this ASAP?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> okay, then it is prioritised</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> conclusion - beatriz and harsh will write up the proposed changes and major impact to dpv and georg will review, and an item will be added to next week's agenda</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></p>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 89</a></strong> Add DGA/eIDAas entities (coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>has assessment relation</h3>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> as in the earlier meetings, a proposal has been put forth to create a relation called <em>hasAssessment</em> with variations as needed for <em>risk assessment</em> and <em>impact assessment</em>. Corresponding concepts will also be needed for <em>Assessment</em> with specialisations <em>Impact Assessment</em> and <em>Risk Assessment</em> (these exist), with further specialisations for <em>DPIA</em>, <em>PIA</em>, <em>Rights Impact Assessment</em>, <em>Fundamental Rights Impact Assessment</em>, <em>Data Breach Impact Assessment</em></p>
<p id=x042 class=summary> agreement in the group to add proposed concepts</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/96">#96</a></p>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 96</a></strong> Add assessment relations and concepts (coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x046 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on JUN-29 at 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST.</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> Topics for discussion will include (1) review of data breach document; (2) impact of proposed changes from DGA modelling; (3) updates to multilingual translations</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
