14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
14:54:24 <RRSAgent> logging to https://www.w3.org/2024/07/16-dpvcg-irc
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, beatrizEsteves, mugdhaKhedkar, julianFlake
14:55:18 <harsh> Regrets: georgKrog
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 30 JUL 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0f0fbb7f-df36-4325-b39b-60e0eac5c8b7/20240723T140000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-07-23
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: v2 publishing
14:55:18 <harsh> \ discussed and agreed to go ahead with publishing the 2.0 release as no issues have been identified 
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: ODRL CG
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: meeting with ODRL CG at W3C TPAC?
14:55:18 <harsh> beatrizEsteves:  don't know, will ask ODRL CG. There wasn't a specific agenda there about meeting with DPV at the moment.
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: DPIA requirements
14:55:18 <harsh> tyttiRintamaki: working on analysing DPIA required conditions from DPAs, and to represent them using DPV concepts. The idea is to add these to EU-GDPR as suggestions for when DPIA is conducted by using DPV concepts to identify the specific situations.
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Android data hinting
14:55:18 <harsh> mugdhaKhedkar: working on supporting android developers with identifying when data is sensitive, associated risks, and other supporting features based on GDPR requirements, for this we have created a dataset of data categories which is under review as part of a journal submission. Can share it on the internal mailing list.
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: sounds interesting, this would be in scope of DPV - e.g. we can have new categories in PD extension, and for Android specific data categories (e.g. google ID) we can decide where to put them based on how many such concepts are present
16:02:57 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 06 August at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be the release of DPV 2.0 and discussion on 2.1 as the next iteration with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.
