20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, victorLopez, delaramGolpayegani, paulRyan, georgKrog, beatrizEsteves, steveHickman
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 29 MAY 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240529T140000/
20:10:04 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-05-29
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Topic: Survey on AI Cards
20:10:04 <harsh> delaram shared a survey to the mailing list about AI Cards which is based on her PhD work on AIRO and VAIR vocabularies, which are going to be adopted in DPV. This work is in collaboration with JRC. https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024May/0021.html
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: DPV v2 release prep
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: most of the documentation is ready, and requires reviewing. Volunteers?
20:10:04 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: will review AI, AI Act
20:10:04 <harsh> georgKrog: will review PD, Risk, Tech, DPV
20:10:04 <harsh> paulRyan: will review LOC, GDPR, DPV
20:10:04 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: will review DGA, Justifications, DPV
20:10:04 <harsh> steveHickman: will review Primer
20:10:04 <harsh> tyttiHickman: will review Primer, Risk
20:10:04 <harsh> victorLopez: will review Primer
20:10:04 <harsh> julianFlake: will review Primer, GDPR
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Next meeting
20:09:23 <harsh> \ The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 05 JUN 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda will focus on DPV v2 planning and release.