14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
14:54:24 <RRSAgent> logging to https://www.w3.org/2024/07/16-dpvcg-irc
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, julianFlake, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki, beatrizEsteves, catarinaSilva
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 23 JUL 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0f0fbb7f-df36-4325-b39b-60e0eac5c8b7/20240723T140000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-07-23
14:55:51 <harsh> Topic: Citation in repo
15:14:25 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/172 -> Issue 172 Create a CITATION.cff file (by nuthub)
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: adding this file to the repo creates a suggested citation for the repo, see demo at https://github.com/coolharsh55/dpv-x
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: citation info in file https://github.com/coolharsh55/dpv-x/blob/master/CITATION.cff - cites the arXiv preprint instead of the repo
14:55:51 <harsh> \ discussed and accepted to implement this
14:55:51 <harsh> Topic: Legal fixes
15:14:25 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/48 -> Issue 48 Specify association between law, authority, and jurisdiction in documentation of respective concepts (by coolharsh55)
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: authoriries are now visible in legal pages, e.g. see w3id.org/dpv/legal which includes mapping between laws and authorities
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: There is a regression here regarding laws and authorities specified. Previously we had all EU DPAs listed - however with the new structure we would need to create an extension for each country e.g. AT, FR, IT and then specify the law and DPA within that jurisdiction extension. We shouldn't make this (major) change in 2.0 and instead should do it in 2.1 which we are expecting in 6 months.
14:55:51 <harsh> \ discussed and agreed 
14:55:51 <harsh> Topic: 404 page
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: created an example custom 404 page that shows helpful information including a sitemap, see demo https://harshp.com/dpv-x/404 which tries to guess whether there is a typo in the url or purl, shows versioned url if unversioned url is used, and shows a sitemap like structure to pick the intended page
14:55:51 <harsh> \ discussed and agreed 
14:55:51 <harsh> Topic: 2.1-dev
14:55:51 <harsh> \ agreed to start work on next version with number 2.1-dev
14:55:51 <harsh> Topic: Lawfulness concepts
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: added lawfulness concepts for DGA, NIS2, and AI Act. For NIS2 added a note to the HTML that the lawfulness is dependant on implementing laws in countries and that the NIS2 lawfulness concepts are a generic indicator of compliance with NIS2 which is a directive
15:14:25 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/170 -> Issue 170 Add Lawfulness concept for each Law/Regulation (by coolharsh55)
14:55:51 <harsh> Topic: IDSA and GAIA-X
14:55:51 <harsh> julianFlake: had previously indicated interest in mapping IDSA concepts to DPV, but the focus in project has changed to GAIA-X - there are still terms and concepts there that can benefit from the mapping
14:55:51 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: interested and continuing to work on IDSA as it is relevant for the projects in IMEC/Gent
14:55:51 <harsh> harsh: in this case, better to have a spreadsheet with the mapping data which we can then use to discuss for both IDSA and GAIA-X, see example where spreadsheet has columns: Concept, Parent,  mapping type (broader/ narrower/ exact), DPV concept, new concept, parent of new concept, notes
16:02:57 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 30 JULY at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be continuation of current discussion with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.
