20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harsh, georg, tytti, paul, delaram, steveHickman, julian, iain
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 17 APR 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240417T150000/
20:10:04 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-04-17
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Intended, Active, etc.
20:10:04 <harsh> delaram: for modelling information about what is intended, purpose is needed and there is no mention of AI subject. For ISO taxonomy o transparency, not sure about maturity of standard.
20:10:04 <harsh> georg: purpose in GDPR and intended purpose in AI Act - can be different e.g. sustem can only be used by policy for identify verification
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: also relevant for context and data subject
20:10:04 <harsh> steveHickman: is georg making a distinction between capability and purpose
20:10:04 <harsh> delaram: purpose is end-goal, capability is how/what the technology does
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: ISWC resource paper
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/131 -> Issue 131 DPV Resource Paper (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: work on paper underway, beatriz and julian are doing citation analysis. We also need to mention how the industry and projects are using DPV. Any information on these?
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: Inrupt is using PD extension. Don't know about Athumi - can check but won't have a reply by deadline.
20:10:04 <harsh> georg: Signatu is using DPV for a lot of the legal compliance tooling.
20:10:04 <harsh> iain: JLINC is using DPV for agreement building. In IEEE P7012 the initial ballot has been put forth for moving the standard ahead.
20:10:04 <harsh> georg: highlight that DPV helps higlight which data is sensitive - add as a requirement
20:10:04 <harsh> steveHickman: any example of tooling?
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: DPCat has an example where we used SHACL shapes to check information is present and is correct
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: mention ISO 27560 use of DPV in paper
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: any response from presentation to Commission? Relevant for Solid & Personal Data Spaces.
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: we're presenting on Thursday, will report back next week 
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Next meeting
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Discussion on time change to accommodate regular members. Time changed to 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST (-1 hour)
20:10:04 <harsh> \ The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 24 April 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today.
