20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harsh, steve, georg, tytti, delaram, beatriz, art, ted
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 27 MAR 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240327T150000/
20:09:57 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-03-27
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Presenting DPV to EU COM
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: georg (not present today) is meeting the commission sometime in April, where we will present the DPV in relation to implementing consent and GDPR. Any other things we should mention?
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: the use of DPV for Solid policies (e.g. Flanders, Belgium) for consent as well as other legal bases
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Resource Paper
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/131 -> Issue 131 DPV Resource Paper (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: do we update the DPVCG wiki Adoption page to keep track of DPV use in academic documentation?
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: yes, people can authenticate using W3C login so that is best for now. In the future there are plans to move the wiki to GitHub
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/129 -> Issue 129  Move content from W3C wiki to Github wiki, and close W3C wiki (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: w3id purl
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: there are still broken links (w3id purls) for DPV. To make it easier to check this I have created the status check page - https://harshp.com/dpv-x/status-check It shows failing urls, I need to fix this. In the future, this will be moved to dpvcg repo
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: AI Act 
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106 -> Issue 106 Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126 -> Issue 126  AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> \ delaram discussed resolution of concepts such as `HighImpactCapabilityGPAIModel` (AI Act Art.3(44-c)) for whether to use the definition or to wait for clarity to decide whether this is capability or a status (for now go with capability)
20:10:04 <harsh> \ discussed other concepts such as sector, where to use it
20:10:04 <harsh> \ next step is to finalise the concepts where possible and then produce the HTML page for the draft of the AI Act which will then get updated
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: DGA
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: I have contents for the DGA DPV page - how to update it?
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: the contents are stored as jinja2 (html) templates - for DGA it is https://github.com/w3c/dpv/blob/master/code/jinja2_resources/template_legal_eu_gdpr.jinja2. Opening a PR with modified file is an option - to test it you will need to run the whole code generation setup. Otherwise opening the file as is will render it as basic HTML. Other options such as commenting on the issue or sending the content to me via email are also okay.
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED APR-03 15:00 WEST / 16:00 CEST.
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Topics for discussion are
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 1) Rights Justification - finalise output and produce documentation - beatriz, harsh
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 2) AI Act and Tech concepts by delaram - identify 'simple' subset of concepts to add, start work on AIRO and VAIR integrations
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 3) TOMs by harsh - to resolve the proposed concepts
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 4) w3id config update by harsh
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 5) github issues update by harsh
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 6) dpv marketing page by harsh
20:10:04 <harsh> \ 7) dpv resource paper
