20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: tyttiRintamaki
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, paulRyan, delaramGolpayegani, beatrizEsteves, steveHickman, alexJarju, victorLopezJuarez, anaGardano
20:09:03 <harsh> Regrets: iainHenderson, georgKrog
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 08 MAY 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240508T150000/
20:10:04 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-05-08
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Justifications
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63 -> Issue 63 Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPR’s rights (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> paulRyan: okay with the outputs
20:09:03 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: okay with the outputs
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: that concludes the discussion with okay from paul, beatriz, and georg and we will add them to v2. For the GDPR rights, we will think about how to express the relation for v2.1
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Consent Controls 
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115 -> Issue 115 Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: how do we add controls to obtain/ withdraw consent - there is no exact solution at the moment
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: Do we suggest using the existing `WithdrawFromActivity` or specifically add a term `WithdrawConsent`? The cons of the second method is that we will need to repeat such actions for all legal basis. 
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: Proposal: we keep the consent actions to what is necessary i.e. obtaining, providing, and withdrawing and provide terms specifically for these. For others, like demonstrate, validate, etc. we can have generic controls as proposed in the issue
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: through this, we will be providing specific consent based relations (straightforward solution for those who wish to model consent)
20:09:03 <harsh> paulRyan: we should model consent as it has been explicitly mentioned in regulations 
20:09:03 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: Agree with adding specific controls for consent 
20:09:03 <harsh> \ discussion concluded - No objections for Proposal, to be discussed next week with examples 
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Technology Purpose
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/85 -> Issue 85  Specify 'business process' or 'service goal' in DPV-Tech (by coolharsh55)
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: How to model the goal of the technology 
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: Proposal: 1. What is the technology capable of 2. Reuse DPV “has purpose” to say technology has purpose etc. 
20:09:03 <harsh> steveHickman: leave it as purpose.
20:09:03 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: confusing to use same term for defining purpose of processing activity or purpose of an AI system. 
20:09:03 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: agrees with Beatriz
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: Ideas on how to represent this information and the multiple meanings behind purpose?
20:09:03 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: properties for this in tech extension: “intended purpose”
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: we will then need to distinguish this as intended purpose and applied purpose - and we have dpv:Purpose already covering both, so this will be confusing
20:09:03 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: call it intent, concluded its too vague. Or call it function (use function as capability to model).
20:09:03 <harsh> \ Discussion concluded without consensus on solution. Agreed to discuss this with furthe examples and ideas.
20:09:03 <harsh> Topic: Tech concepts
20:09:03 <harsh> delaramGopayegani: Need terms: market availablity status, deployer, operator, etc. Is there an umbrella term for these?
20:09:03 <harsh> We have `TechnologyActor` in tech extension, but nothing to distinguish the non-subject actors. 
20:09:03 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: Call user “end user” instead?
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: For now, we have already accepted terms market availablity status, deployer, etc - so we will add this to the Tech extension.
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: We require a mapping of 22989 terms for actors and other concepts - Victor, Alex, Ana to assist with this
20:09:03 <harsh> DPV v2
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: we're getting there, all issues have been discussed and will be resolved, so optimistic about making the intended deadline of May end
20:09:03 <harsh> harsh: only remaining work is documentation - data breach, DGA etc - which will be done from existing papers
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Next meeting
20:09:23 <harsh> \ The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 15 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today's discussions.