20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harsh, iain, delaram, tytti, paul, beatriz
20:10:04 <harsh> Regrets: georg
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 31 JAN 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240131T150000/
20:09:57 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-01-31
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: DPV v2
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: Code implementing the new organisation system and documentation layout has been merged/added to the github repo. The changes are live. For the v2 release (target date end of February), people should go through the documents to see if there are any issues (e.g. broken links, incorrect content). Some sections also require additional content. 
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Harsh will put a list about this as a github issue.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/127 -> Issue 127 DPV v2 Release Issue Tracker (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: AI Act
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106 -> Issue 106 Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> delaram: we can go through the concepts next week, and then in the meeting on 14th we can review and integrate the concepts. 
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: AI Extension
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126 -> Issue 126 AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> delaram: for the AI extension, we can start with concepts already defined or mentioned in the AI Act, and then see how they can be collected and how to model them in terms of relation with Technology and Risk concepts
20:10:04 <harsh> delaram: we can use AIRO/VAIR as the starting point for the AI vocabulary
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Rights Exercise
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/63 -> Issue 63 Add Right Non-fulfilment Justifications for GDPRâ€™s rights (by besteves4)
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: have written content about rights exercise concepts, and about justifications associated with rights based on the discussion in github issue e.g. for justifications mentioned in GDPR rights. Will share these for review by paul and georg.
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: ODRL and DPV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/31 -> Issue 31 Mappings from DPV to other vocabularies (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> beatriz: there is a ODRL meeting next week where this can be mentioned/discussed. For the alignment, we should list DPV concepts and how they can work with ODRL e.g. which can be left/right operands.
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: P7012 Human-oriented vocab
20:10:04 <harsh> iain: P7012 is progressing and is expected to have a draft soon by April/May. DPV is part of the work. If there is anything that is required from DPV, we can discuss it as a request to add content or to provide examples for where/how DPV can be used.
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Next meeting will be in 1 week, on WED FEB-07 15:00 WET / 16:00 CET.
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Topics for discussion are updates on DPV v2, github repo and issues, rights exercise, discussion on AI Act, and Tech/AI vocabulary.
20:10:04 <harsh> \ CFPs for Privacy Forum conference (15 April https://www.enisa.europa.eu/events/annual-privacy-forum-2024) and SEMANTiCS (29 April https://2024-eu.semantics.cc/page/cfp_rev_rep) have been published. These would be suitable venues for publishing work discussed here.