20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harsh, beatrizEsteves, pierroBonati, georgPKrog, axelPolleres, ranaSaniei, guntur
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 15 APR 2020
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2020Apr/0013.html
20:10:04 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2020-04-15
20:09:23 <harsh> \ introductions - Rana Saniei, Beatriz, Guntur - Uni. Vienna privacy at speed HL - working with Fajar
20:09:23 <harsh>  \ discussed Call schedule - We can do this for topics, with default to bi-weekly schedule
20:09:23 <harsh>  Topic: Areas to work on
20:09:23 <harsh>  Georg: legal basis to work on outside the EU; we are working on trackers on website - specifying purpose categories and names; can submit to group in a couple of weeks
20:09:23 <harsh>  Piero: specifying policies; we should think carefully about examples, and find meanings to specify consent and consent requests
20:09:23 <harsh>  Axel: We were working on Primer and uptake examples of vocabulary by adopters;
20:09:23 <harsh>  Axel: (and Piero) can ask SPECIAL partners for adoption
20:09:23 <harsh>  Axel: SPECIAL has ended and followup project has started (called TRAPEZE, Piero is involved) and some partners are interest
20:09:23 <harsh>  Georg: DPV as a pan-jurisdiction concept and vocabulary; find a way to bridge these labels
20:09:23 <harsh>  Topic: Primer 
20:09:23 <harsh>  \ working (editor, reviewer, author)
20:09:23 <harsh>  Axel: We can ask people to take charge to provide some information rather than voluntary; ask implementers and adopters to add information to the wiki to add their use-case and use to the wiki.
20:09:23 <harsh>  Georg: We will contribute to the Primer regarding our use. We use DPV regarding consent and processing records in our solutions such as consent requests and selecting information to include;
20:09:23 <harsh>  Axel: (with Piero) For Primer, what is the goal (Harsh describes Primer structure based on RDF, OWL and PROV primers)
20:09:23 <harsh>  Axel: we should use the tools we have e.g. actions, issues, wiki
20:09:23 <harsh>  Topic: make group more active
20:09:23 <harsh>  Harsh: can ask new members to see how this aligns with their research
20:09:23 <harsh>  Beatriz: I will be interested in working on the technical side of things
20:09:23 <harsh>  Georg: specification is needed; Action: ask our customers if the DPV is sufficient and if not then in which case should it be enriched
20:09:23 <harsh>  Georg: Would be of interest to the PhDs to visualise e.g. consent dialogues the DPV will work;
20:09:23 <harsh>  Action: Legal basis for international transfers contributed by Signatu in mailing list
20:09:23 <harsh>  Action: Action: Template of information we would like from adopters/implementers
20:09:23 <harsh>  Action: Issue: Pan-Jurisdiction concepts and vocabulary - which jurisdictions and legislations to specify (also ISO standards?)
20:09:23 <harsh>  Action: Issue: Semantics of examples to use for DPV - how to specify examples and uses of DPV - which logic-based formalisms to use and apply here?