20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, paulRyan, delaramGolpayegani, steveHickman, julianFlake, markLizar
20:09:23 <harsh> Regrets: georgKrog
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 24 APR 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240424T150000/
20:10:04 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-04-24
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Automation
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108 -> Issue 108 Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussed Automation concepts - okay to continue with them.
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Meeting with EC
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: presented DPV to the Commission with Georg, it went over time - but good positive response. Discussed DPV and in particular consent and DGA.
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Justifications
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/83 -> Issue 83 Create new Justifications extension (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> 
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: Modified the justifications to remove prefix and suffix and make them more 'useful' in different contexts. To be reviewed by beatriz. See https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/83#issuecomment-2068059917
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Involvement/Active concepts
20:09:23 <harsh> SubTopic: Involvement concepts
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108 -> Issue 108 Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ For Involvement, Permissive and Non-Permissve Involvement were discussed and accepted -  see https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108#issuecomment-2074726016
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Question about ReversingOutputs and ReversingEffects - what's the difference. To continue discussion next week based on comments on the issue.
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Question about opt-in / opt-out / withdraw - clear distinction in usage note should be provided
20:09:23 <harsh> SubTopic: Active/Passive Data Subject
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/116 -> Issue 116 Add Intended and Active Data Subject categories (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussed and accepted to have generic involvement e.g. `hasActiveInvolvement` and `EntityActivelyInvolved` to indicate any active involvement of entities
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Accepted `isDeterminedBy` for expressing determination
20:09:23 <harsh> \ `hasActiveDataSubject` and `hasPassiveDataSubject` to be kept as proposed to see if they are needed as other properties should be sufficient, along with `DataSubjectActivelyInvovled` and `DataSubjectPassivelyInvolved`
20:09:23 <harsh> SubTopic: Informed concepts
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108 -> Issue 108 Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussed and accepted having informed as a status. See https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/116#issuecomment-2067615791
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Specialisations for Data Subject, Controller, Recipient, and Authority
20:09:23 <harsh> SubTopic: Intent concepts
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108 -> Issue 108 Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussed about whether intent should be a status of a generic concept - and if generic then how to describe it? E.g. `IntendedActivity` or `IntendedPurpose`. Same for Expected - which is distinct from intended as it refers to things not under control
20:09:23 <harsh> steveHickman: are we modelling this as a boolean or is there stuff in between?
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussed that this is modelling the two possible distinct values - there could be stuff in between which we can add later
20:09:23 <harsh> SubTopic: Generic controls
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115 -> Issue 115 Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussion regarding whether these controls are still needed given the involvement concepts (e.g. opt-in). Proposal to keep these controls limited to generic actions e.g. obtain information, obtain action, etc. which can be combined with other controls or consent
20:09:23 <harsh> steve: do we need this level of details?
20:09:23 <harsh> julian: are these distinct terms as compared to involvement e.g. withdraw?
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: agree that these are confusing, we can repurpose this to instead have generic controls to obtain information, perform information, etc. to support an entity to describe how they are providing e.g. opt-in or ability to withdraw
20:09:23 <harsh> julian: would be good to have examples
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Tech and AI extension
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47 -> Issue 47 Specifying "Cloud Computing" in DPV-TECH (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126 -> Issue 126 AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ See see https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47#issuecomment-2074762318 
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: tech/org measures from DPV shouldn't be duplicated in TECH to create categories of different technologies; all categories should be added to DPV's TOM taxonomy
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: TECH extension only provides information such as provider (actors), or provision method (e.g. cloud), network connectivity (e.g. bluetooth), environment (e.g. smartphone app) etc.
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: AI extension will be a completely separate and detached extension from TECH that will provide a taxonomy of techniques, capabilities, etc. for AI
20:09:23 <harsh> \ Discussed and okay to go ahead with this approach, and discuss it next week
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: AI Act
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106 -> Issue 106 Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: we will publish the rest of the concepts that we have (for now) as draft and continue working on it
20:09:23 <harsh> delaram: let's ask people who are working on specific articles of the act to provide concepts
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: NIS2/ISO27001 vocab
20:09:23 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/123 -> Issue 123 Add concepts from ENISA SotA Tech/Org Measures (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> harsh: Rob has a Master's student Jenni who is working on this and will be 
20:09:23 <harsh> delaram: AI Act article 15 (or so) has relevant requirements for cybersecurity, accuracy, and quality which would be relevant here
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Next meeting
20:09:23 <harsh> \ The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 01 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today's discussions.