20:08:55 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
20:09:10 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
20:09:13 <harsh> Chair: harsh
20:09:23 <harsh> Present: paulRyan, steveHickman, victorLopez, georgKrog, julianFlake, delaramGolpayegani, iainHenderson
20:09:03 <harsh> Regrets: beatrizEsteves, alexJarju, tyttiRintamaki
20:09:37 <harsh> Date: 22 MAY 2024
20:09:50 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240522T140000/
20:10:04 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
20:10:04 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-05-22
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Updated Readme
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: the README.md for the github repo has been updated - https://github.com/w3c/dpv/blob/dev/README.md
20:10:04 <harsh> 20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/144 -> Issue 144 Update README.md for v2 (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: profile metadata
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/141 -> Issue 141 Add Profile vocabulary metadata (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: added profile metadata in RDF that describes that we have a HTML spec, RDF files, primer, guide, etc.
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: Risk extension
20:10:04 <harsh> Subtopic: Incidents
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100 -> Issue 100 Proposal to add (security) Incident Reporting concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: added the incident concepts discussed in previous meeting to the risk extension, where data breach is a form of incident and is described using the incident concepts. 
20:10:04 <harsh> Subtopic: GDPR Data Breach
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64 -> Issue 64 Provide concepts for Data Breach (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: The data breach requirements from GDPR are provided in the EU GDPR extension.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/103 -> Issue 103 Guide for Data Breach (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: The guide for GDPR data breach has been copied over, and needs to be updated for incident concepts
20:10:04 <harsh> Subtopic: Risk Assessment
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/104 -> Issue 104 Re-evaluate Risk Assessment concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: Added the risk assessment concepts as discussed previously - risk and mitigation measure is in DPV, risk extension provides concepts to model threat and vulnerability. Also includes generic risk controls.
20:10:04 <harsh> steveHickman: will you add more controls?
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: yes, but only focusing on structure, broad concepts - otherwise link to MITRE CVE which is an established body of work
20:10:04 <harsh> Subtopic: Risk Management
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74 -> Issue 74 Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> steveHickman: involved in institution for privacy design which have an operational design for doing this e.g. risk controls
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: do we need to distinguish between risk management plan, methodology, etc.?
20:10:04 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: should also look into ISO AI Risk management guidelines
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: then let's look into this next month so we do general and AI risk together to ensure they are consistent
20:10:04 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: lots of interest in ai risk management
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: what we want to enable is supporting discovery and mitigation of risk using our concepts, so we can check whether our concepts support this or not
20:10:04 <harsh> \ conclusion of discussions - we discuss risk management later together with AI risk management, rest are okay for v2 
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: HumanInvolvement
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108 -> Issue 108 Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> steveHickman: (question from last meeting) shouldn't revert concepts be modelled as subsets of correct concepts
20:10:04 <harsh> steveHickman: reversion is a more specific form of correction so this should be a hierarchy; alternatively, is it possible to revert without it being a correction - if, for example, both the current and prior values are correct and you just want to do a comparison?
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: correction if defined as changing the output can include reversion, however the intent is to distinguish when the human or another body supplies the value (correction) versus where it doesn't and relies on the previous value (reversion)
20:10:04 <harsh> \ discussion conclusion: agreed that for now we leave them separate and investigate whether they should be aligned; add a comment to this effect inviting inputs
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Consent Controls
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115 -> Issue 115 Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> \ Discussed and accepted as these are needed for practioners, no alternative proposal or clear objections provided at this moment
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Tech extension
20:09:23 <harsh> Subtopic: hasIntendedUse
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/85 -> Issue 85 Specify 'business process' or 'service goal' in DPV-Tech (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: e.g. database has many features but our intended use is only store and access control
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: can also help distinguish between what the provider declare as intended use and what is the intended use of the organisation
20:10:04 <harsh>  steve: would this help distinguish between what are all the capabilities of a system and what is the intended use of it 
20:10:04 <harsh>  harsh: yes
20:10:04 <harsh>  steve: would this intended use be declared at the start or derived from all the uses?
20:10:04 <harsh>  harsh: both can be done e.g. declare initially then check if uses are aligned with intended use - deviation can be used to update the intended use or flag problems 
20:10:04 <harsh> \ discussion conclusion - okay to use this
20:09:23 <harsh> Subtopic: Cloud concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47 -> Issue 47 ecifying "Cloud Computing" in DPV-TECH (by coolharsh55)
20:09:23 <harsh> \ discussion conclusion - okay to continue with proposed restructuring
20:10:04 <harsh> Topic: DPV v2
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: this concludes all issues currently listed under DPV v2 milestone https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/4
20:10:04 <harsh> harsh: next step is to write the documentation for the changed concepts, and then review it - needs volunteers
20:10:04 <harsh> \ volunteers - paul, georg, julian (only after May end), delaram (only for AI and AI Act)
20:09:23 <harsh> Topic: Next meeting
20:09:23 <harsh> \ The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 29 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda will focus on DPV v2 planning and release.